NetyearGroup(JP-3622)TSEMothersRecordedhighesteveroperatingincomeinpreviousfiscalyearduetomajoromni-channelprojects
  2015-09-03 提供機構：FISCO 作者：FISCO 點閱次數：8   

The
Netyear Group <3622> (hereinafter “the Group”) operates a digital
marketing support business utilizing Internet technologies. Its customers are
primarily major corporations. Its subsidiary Tribal Media House is an industry
leader in the social media analysis and consulting sector. In
its consolidated results in the fiscal year ended March 2015 (FY3/15), the
Group achieved major gains in both sales and profits, with net sales increasing
35.3% y-o-y to 7,239 million yen and operating income 134.8% to 442 million
yen, both record highs. The growth in scale of omni-channel projects
contributed significantly to profits, while the marketing support business that
utilizes social media operated by the subsidiary Tribal Media House also
performed strongly. An
increase in sales but a decline in profits is forecast for the consolidated
results for FY3/16, with net sales expected to rise 3.6% y-o-y to 7,500 million
yen, but operating income to fall 43.6% to 250 million yen. The reason for this
net sales forecast is that the Group has not yet been able to sufficiently
develop new projects due to its concentrated investment of human resources in
major omni-channel projects. The reason for the decline in profits is that to
rapidly respond to this situation, it plans to recruit about 100 additional
staff, construct a recruitment system, increase spending on education and
training after recruitment, and furthermore to increase spending on developing
new services and on strengthening security. Along with the spread of smartphones and SNS, companies’ desire
to invest in the digital marketing area, including in the omni-channel, has
been growing year by year, and the Group is aiming to strengthen its personnel
structure to capture demand from this growing market. In addition, it has
adopted a strategy of enhancing its service lineup and expanding its target
customer groups from major corporations to mid-sized corporations and SMEs. In
this fiscal period, it will carry out the fully fledged launch of “Salesforce
Marketing Cloud,” which has been installed by more than 10,000 companies
worldwide as a marketing automation tool. In addition, for light users, such as
small and medium-sized stores, it plans to release new products it has
developed in-house in the first half of the fiscal year and depending on how
well these products sell, its results can be expected to trend upwards.◆Summary of the Business Developing a digital
marketing support business utilizing Internet technology (1) Company profile The
Group mainly operates a digital marketing support business utilizing Internet
technology. There are three Group subsidiaries: Netyear Craft (established
2006), which produces and manages websites; Tribal Media House (made into a
subsidiary through a stock acquisition in 2009), which offers marketing support
and analysis and consulting utilizing social media; and Nihon Gigei (made into
a subsidiary through a stock acquisition in August 2013), which provides a
Cloud service for groupware software. More than 85% of Netyear Craft’s sales
are from the Netyear Group, but the other two subsidiaries are developing their
businesses independently. Employee numbers are increasing year by year
alongside the expansion in business scale and reached 372 employees on a
consolidated basis by the end of March 2015. The Group’s largest shareholder (capital contribution ratio,
31.1%) is TIS Inc., which is a subsidiary of IT Holdings Corporation < 3626
>, but it has no business relationship with the Group.The Group is highly regarded
for its progressive initiatives and many of its customers are major
corporations that lead their industries (2) Description of businesses Netyear
Group’s business area is digital marketing. Digital marketing refers to the
marketing techniques in corporate activities that are centered on the web site
of the company and tied in with existing media and marketing, call centers,
stores, etc. These services are for clients such as corporations and local
governments, and propose and implement new digital marketing strategies to
produce the outcomes the client wants to achieve, including improved brand
power, sales growth and the promotion of business transformations. A
characteristic of the Group is that it is engaged in systems development and
design with the focus on improving the “user experience (UX)” on the web. Here,
“user experience” does not refer to the standard meaning in English, but rather
indicates “what users experience when they visit our company's web site, and
what they become interested in after experiencing the site.” Therefore, the
final goal is to improve the “user experience” to get customers to purchase
products or become fans of the corporation. Due
to the arrival of the digital information society, there is an abundance of
information and we can conclude that as the media and device tools for
obtaining that information become increasingly diverse, improving the “user
experience” has become more important than ever before. For
this reason, services will become customized for each client. Generally, the
development period is about three months and even a long development period is
about one year. Project management is also comparatively easy, and cases in
which the development deadline is delayed are rare. Furthermore, the majority
of the systems development part of a project is outsourced. The unit price of
orders varies depending on the content of the project, ranging from 100,000 yen
at the low end to more than 100 million yen at the top end. Recently, however,
demand for marketing techniques incorporating “data analysis and utilization”
has been increasing and the unit price of the projects has been getting larger.
The strengths of the Group include its many human resources with
strong planning ability and a progressive sensibility toward marketing.
Furthermore, its customers highly evaluate its project management capacity and
the stability, reliability, etc. of its systems.Other than customized services, the Group is focusing on the
sales of products it develops in-house. These include Tribal Media House’s
social media integrated management tool, “Engage Manager,” and its co-creation
marketing platform, “cocosquare,” and also “rakumo,” which is the business-use
groupware software of Nihon Gigei that was made into a subsidiary in August
2013. It also sells and provides installation support for the product line-ups
of third parties, including the marketing automation tools of U.S. companies
like Salceforce.com and Oracle, and Google and Adobe access analysis tools. The
business model for the products it develops in-house is a stock-type model with
monthly billing and the sales ratio of these products in FY3/15 was at the 9.0
% level.The Group has clients in a wide range of industries, including
retail, manufacturing, finance, and information and communication services. It
has around 200 corporate customers on a non-consolidated basis, but the
consolidated Group as a whole has approximately 1,000 such customers, with the
subsidiary Tribal Media House having around 230 and Nihon Gigei approximately
600. In particular, as the Netyear Group operates a progressive digital
marketing support business, the majority of its clients are major corporations
that lead their industries.◆Financial Highlights Achieved a record high
operating income in the previous fiscal year for the first time in seven fiscal
years and obtained major orders through its omni-channel strategy (1) Consolidated results in
the fiscal year ended March 2015 The consolidated results for FY3/15 announced on May 11 were for
major increases in both sales and profits, with net sales increasing 35.3%
y-o-y to 7,239 million yen, operating income 134.8% to 442 million yen,
ordinary income 133.9% to 446 million yen, and net income 25.1% to 73 million
yen. Net sales were a record high for the second consecutive period, while both
operating income and ordinary income reached record highs for the first time in
seven fiscal years. The main reason for these results was the acquisition of a
large order for an omni-channel project from major distribution companies, with
this project contributing the majority of the increases in sales and profits in
the fiscal year.The number of customers who
have an annual transaction total in excess of 100 million yen, which is a key
performance indicator (KPI) for the Group’s net sales, fell by 1 company y-o-y
to 9 companies. But the unit price per customer for the group of customers with
an annual transaction total of around 50 million yen increased, and it is
considered that customers are becoming increasingly willing to invest in the
digital marketing area. In the previous fiscal year, the average order amount
per project was around 10 to 20 million yen, but in the fiscal year under
review, it has increased to the 30 to 50 million yen range. The reason for this
is that while in the past the orders were primarily for the creation of
websites, recently there has been an increase in orders for additional
functions, such as data analysis. Also, the percentage of sales dependent on the 20 top-ranked
customers rose by 5 percentage points to 61% due to the effects of the
acquisition of major projects.Operating income grew significantly,
as the increase in outsourcing expenses and personnel expenses due to the
acquisition of major projects was absorbed by the effects of the higher sales.
As an extraordinary loss, 187 million yen was recorded as an impairment loss on
goodwill relating to the subsidiary Nihon Gigei. This is thought to be because
of the decline in profitability of the Project Commissioning Department in
Nihon Gigei and the intensification of competition in the industry around its
main product “rakumo” meant that it became difficult to achieve growth at the
speed originally anticipated. Looking at results on a non-consolidated basis and by
consolidated subsidiaries alone, on a non-consolidated basis the Group’s net
sales increased 41.4% y-o-y to 5,772 million yen and operating income rose
212.6% to 452 million yen. Orders for major omni-channel projects contributed
significantly to this performance, and if these projects are excluded, net
sales were basically unchanged y-o-y. This was due to the fact that the Group
concentrated its limited human resources into these projects, so was unable to
make much progress in developing new customers.Conversely, the subsidiaries’
net sales, calculated by subtracting the non-consolidated result from the
consolidated result, increased 16% y-o-y to 1,467 million yen, while their
operating loss was 9 million yen (compared to operating income of 44 million
yen in the previous fiscal year). Within these amounts, Tribal Media House
increased both sales and profits thanks to its solid performance in the sales
and management of “Engage Manager” and “cocosquare”. Nihon Gigei also steadily
increased its number of “rakumo” contracts, which contributed to its higher
sales and profits. On the other hand, Netyear Craft, which relies on the parent
company for the majority of its sales, recorded a loss following a decline in
sales, mainly due to the reduction in orders for website production projects. The net sales of the products that the Group is currently
focusing on (including products of other companies), grew steadily 11% y-o-y to
650 million yen, centered on the social media-related tool provided by Tribal
Media House. However, as the sales ratio contains the major omni-channel
projects, these products’ sales ratio fell from 10.9% in the previous fiscal
year to 9.0%. Nihon Gigei has aimed to expand its “rakumo” service menu,
including by releasing “rakumo keihi” in November 2014 as a new service, and as
of the end of March 2015, the number of companies with “rakumo” contracts had
grown steadily to 697 companies.Further improving financial
soundness and steadily improving profitability (2) Financial position and
management indicators The
financial position at the end of March 2015 was that the balance of total
assets increased by 209 million yen from the end of the previous fiscal year to
3,352 million yen. The main factors behind this increase were a rise in cash
and deposits of 431 million yen in conjunction with the higher profits that
exceeded the recording of an impairment loss on goodwill of 247 million yen. On
the other hand, liabilities came to 1,380 million yen, a 146 million yen
increase compared to the end of the previous fiscal year. This was because
while interest-bearing debt fell 127 million yen, accounts payable increased by
111 million yen and consumption tax payable by 128 million yen. Net assets also
rose by 63 million yen to 1,972 million yen, mainly due to the increase in the
capital surplus. Looking next at the management indicators, the Group continues
to repay the interest-bearing debt it procured to fund the acquisition of
shares in Nihon Gigei in FY3/14, and the interest-bearing debt ratio improved
from 20.7% in the previous fiscal year to 13.6%. In addition, the equity ratio
declined slightly as the increase in liabilities was greater than the rise in
net assets. But it remains at the high level of 58.4% and moreover the current
ratio exceeds 200%, so we can conclude that it sufficiently maintained
financial soundness. Looking at profitability, both sales and profits grew
significantly and each of ROA, ROE, and the operating income ratio rose
compared to the previous fiscal year, indicating that profitability is steadily
improving.◆Future Outlook Aiming to strengthen sales by
securing human resources and to reach 50% for the ratio of in-house products (1) Current issues and
policies for FY3/16 The Group currently faces the following two management issues.
The first is that within the context of the increase in companies’ willingness
to invest in the digital marketing field, it is unable to sufficiently capture
this demand due to a lack of human resources. In its FY3/15 results, the Group
achieved record highs in net sales and operating income. But this was due to
the contribution of the major omni-channel-related projects, and as a
consequence of it allocating its human resources to these projects it has been
unable to fully develop new customers.To resolve this issue, in the
current fiscal year the Group is actively implementing its plan to recruit new
employees and to strengthen its sales structure. Specifically, it plans to
increase the number of Group employees on a consolidated basis by around 100
people, from 372 employees at the end of the previous fiscal year to 467
employees (of who, 15 will be new graduates). Its policy is particularly to
strengthen its recruitment in the commissioning field. In terms of the
objectives for increasing recruitment and bolstering education and training, it
is implementing a fully fledged expansion of its personnel by creating a new
organizational structure and from April 2015, it newly created a Human
Resources Department (previously, Personnel and General Affairs Department) and
began recruiting managers as recruitment specialists. The second management issue is
the sluggish growth of the ratio of in-house products (including products of
other companies). The Group’s medium- to long-term strategy is to aim to raise
the sales ratio of in-house products to around 50%. But currently, despite the
increase in sales, it seems that the speed of growth of this ratio is below the
value that was expected. Therefore, in this fiscal year it has newly launched
organizations specializing in the development of new services and products and
is aiming to accelerate the increase in sales in this area and achieve a sales
ratio in excess of 10%. The new organizations are the
omni-channel Cloud business division and the digital business design business
division that were launched in April 2015, with over 10 employees having been
deployed between both business divisions. The omni-channel Cloud business
division has become the sales force for “Salesforce Marketing Cloud,” which is
the marketing automation tool of Salesforce.com, Inc. Demand is from customers
(from major to medium-sized corporations) that are considering investing in the
omni-channel, but because a fully fledged investment in it would be too costly,
first they want to install a simple automation tool and analyze its effects. “Salesforce Marketing Cloud”
is a marketing automation tool that has been installed by more than 10,000
companies around the world. It is a product that makes possible various effects
in accordance with the company’s size and structure, from the “optimization of
email” to expansion to the Web, mobile, and SNS. As this tool has a multitude
of functions, it is sold after being reconfigured into a package optimized to
each customer’s needs. The aim is to install it in 30 companies in the first
year. Conversely, the digital
business design business division is aiming to develop and sell marketing
automation tools to small- and medium-sized stores that do not have their own
customer foundation. While the omni-channel strategy represents an important
marketing strategy for companies, constructing the system from scratch requires
an enormous investment. Therefore, the market environment is not yet in place
to continuously generate major projects as in the previous fiscal year, and
consequently expanding customers, including medium-sized companies and SMEs, is
considered important for the Group. The Group is developing
in-house a simple automation tool for low-end customers like small- and
medium-sized stores and plans to release it during the first half of fiscal
2015. For example, it is thought it will be a service enabling advertising
information for sales promotions to be easily created and sent from a
smartphone app on an individual store basis. The Group will utilize its
expertise in omni-channel commissioning services and its policy is to expand
this area going forward. Major
projects will complete their course in this fiscal year (2)
Results forecasts for FY3/16 The
forecast consolidated results for FY3/16 are that net sales will increase 3.6%
y-o-y to 7,500 million yen, operating income will decline 43.6% to 250 million
yen, ordinary income will fall 44.1% to 250 million yen, and net income will
rise 102.7% to 150 million yen. The omni-channel projects that contributed to results in the
previous fiscal year will nearly all be completed during the first half of the
fiscal year and therefore over the full year this will have a negative impact
on sales to the level of hundreds of millions of yen. While there is the
possibility that additional omni-channel projects will be ordered in the
future, there may also be an increase in costs depending on the progress of
projects. As there are many uncertainties at the current stage, it is
considered that conservative performance targets have been created.Looking at the factors that
may cause operating income to rise or fall, it is expected to increase due to
the effects of higher sales (50 million yen), the contribution of “rakumo” to
profits (24 million yen), and the reduction in the amortization of goodwill (44
million yen), but to decline because of spending to bolster the project
development structure (120 million yen), to construct a development and sales
structure for new services (100 million yen), and to strengthen in-house
security (50 million yen). Personnel expenses are expected to increase
following the recruitment of around 100 personnel this fiscal year, but
outsourcing expenses will decline by around the same amount, so these two items
are likely to cancel each other out in terms of profit or loss. (3)
Trends regarding the subsidiaries ○Tribal
Media House Tribal
Media House is forecast to continue to expand sales in the social media area
and to increase both sales and profits. In particular, the co-creation
marketing platform “cocosquare” service that it launched in 2013 had been
adopted by more than 10 companies by March 2015. Going forward, it is also
anticipated to be installed by an increasing number of companies. It
is an ASP service that provides a forum for sharing information between
companies and customers via Facebook. Not only does it create a venue for
developing fans, such as through new product information and invitations to
various types of events, it also enables customers to participate in new
product planning and development and is attracting attention as a new marketing
method for building medium- to long-term relationships with customers and for
maximizing customer lifetime value (LTV). In
this fiscal year, it is anticipated that more than 10 companies will newly
introduce the service and its net sales are forecast to grow and double the 60
million yen it achieved in the previous fiscal year. This service is a
stock-type business with monthly billing, so it can also be expected to
contribute to improving the stability of profitability. ○Nihon
Gigei Nihon
Gigei is progressing developments to strengthen its “rakumo” service and plans
to release an improved version of it during this fiscal year to further expand
the number of companies in which it has been installed. For the current development,
it has taken experts in UI design from the Netyear Group into the development
team and plans to create a product that is even more user friendly than in the
past. In
addition, the Project Commissioning Department, whose results have continued to
slump, has integrated its business with Netyear Craft, including their
respective personnel, and thereby strengthening its profit structure. ○Netyear
Craft Netyear Craft’s results have deteriorated and in response to
this, it is continuing to reconstruct its value chain. The majority of its
sales come from the Netyear Group, its parent company. But in the last two
years a gap has emerged between the skills its employees actually possess and
the skills they need to have as members of a production department, and this
has been a factor behind the decline in orders. To address this problem, for
its recruitment from the current fiscal year it has created a clear recruitment
policy, including clarifying the skills its employees require, and is
strengthening its personnel structure. In this way, it plans to restore
profitability.◆Measures for Returning Profits to Shareholders Stable payment of dividends The Group is paying out dividends as a measure for returning
profits to shareholders. The Group's basic policy regarding dividends is to pay
stable and continuous dividends while ensuring the internal reserves that are
necessary for future business development and the strengthening of the Group's
business structures. For this reason, dividends per share have been fixed at
3.25 yen from the fiscal year ended March 2008 onward. However, the Group
intends to introduce performance-linked dividends in the future if the internal
reserves are enhanced further and stable cash flow can be obtained every
period. 報告內容僅供參考，不得作為任何投資引用之唯一依據，且其投資風險及決定應由投資人自行判斷並自負損益。