OHASHITECHNICA,INC.(JP-7628)TokyoStockExchangeFirstSectionExpectedtocontinuetorecordhighersalesandprofitsthisfiscalperiodandplanstoincreasethedividendforthefourthconsecutiveperiod
  2015-08-27 提供機構：FISCO 作者：FISCO 點閱次數：12   

Ohashi
Technica, Inc. <7628> (subsequently, “the Company”) is an independent
automotive parts manufacturer that provides products and services to about 400
Japanese automotive and automotive equipment manufacturers. It has built a
structure for responding to customer needs through its Group’s manufacturing
subsidiaries (factory solution) and through its collaborations with partner
companies (fabless solution), and its strength is that this enables it to
rapidly provide products that meet customer needs at the optimum quality and
price. Through this approach, it is achieving a high rate of return compared to
its peers in the automotive parts industry, with an operating income margin of
approximately 10%. In
its FY3/15 consolidated results, the Company recorded a record high in
operating income for the second consecutive fiscal period, with net sales
rising 1.8% year on year (y-o-y) to ¥39,849mn and operating income 10.2% to
¥3,993mn. Despite a slight decline in production volume by the major Japanese
automakers, which are its main customers, sales increased due to the
acquisition of new orders and the effects of the weaker yen. Also, operating
income grew by double digits thanks to factors including cost reductions and
improvements to operational efficiency, in addition to the effects of the
weaker yen. The
forecast for FY3/16 is once again for higher sales and profits, with net sales
expected to rise 2.9% y-o-y to ¥41,000mn and operating income 5.2% to ¥4,200mn.
While the slump in automotive production within Japan is set to continue, in
addition to the strongly performing North American market, the recovery of the
previously slumping ASEAN market and the effects of the weaker yen will be the
factors behind the improved results. Assuming an exchange rate of ¥115 to the
dollar (compared to ¥105.85 to the dollar in the previous fiscal year), the
weaker yen will increase net sales by approximately ¥1,000mn and operating
income by around ¥100mn, which will be the main reasons for the higher sales
and profits. In addition, more customers are adopting new products using the
Company's solid state bonding technology, which is its proprietary technology,
and this is also expected to contribute to profits. Going forward, the Company will pursue policies to strengthen
its global business structure; to bolster its factory solution, such as for the
development of proprietary technologies; and to strengthen its fabless
solution, including through capital participation, and its strategy is to
improve profitability while increasing sales. In terms or returns to shareholders,
its benchmark is for a dividend payout ratio around the 20% level, and for
FY3/16, it is planning a dividend per share of ¥38.0 (for a dividend payout
ratio of 20.7%), which is ¥5 increase y-o-y and will be the fourth consecutive
fiscal year it has increased its dividend. In addition, as part of its overall
capital policy, its approach is to investigate opportunities to acquire
treasury shares as they arise.◆Business Overview Its operating income margin
is top class in the automotive parts industry As
an independent automotive parts manufacturer, approximately 99% of the
Company’s sales are from automotive engine and transmission parts, vehicle body
assembly parts, brake parts, and related items. In addition, around 20% of its
sales are from products manufactured at its subsidiaries in Japan and overseas
(factory solution), while the remaining approximately 80% are from
collaborations with its approximately 300 partner companies (fabless solution).
In this way, it has constructed a “fabless & factory” business structure
for sales to customers. The
Company’s strength is that it is able to quickly grasp the variety of needs of
its corporate customers that are generated during the new vehicle development
stage and the model change stage. In addition, it operates consulting-style
sales providing proposals that can contribute to its customers’ VA and VE
activities; specifically, it carries out planning, design, and development and
then selects the supplier from among its own manufacturing subsidiaries and
partner companies that is able to provide the required product at the optimum
quality and cost. The Company’s operating income margin of approximately 10% ranks
in the top class within the automotive parts industry. The reason for its high
level is considered to be that it is highly evaluated by its customers for the
value of its comprehensive services, which include these high value-added
operating activities through to its delivery structure.The Company is developing its businesses through its one production
subsidiary within Japan and six overseas (one in North America, three in China,
and two in Thailand) and also its eight overseas sales companies (one in North
America, three in China, one in Thailand, one in Mexico, one in the United
Kingdom, and one in Taiwan). Within them, the Taiwanese subsidiary was newly
established in April 2015 and functions as a procurement facility, mainly
procuring products from local Taiwanese companies for the sales companies in
Europe and North America. Previously, these sales companies in the United
Kingdom and North America procured products directly from Taiwanese companies,
but as the transaction volume has increased, the sales company was established
in Taiwan to unify the point-of-contact with these companies. It is scheduled
to start operations from the fall of 2015. In addition, in November 2014 TK
Co., Ltd. was added to the Company’s Group as an equity method affiliate. TK is
the joint developer of the solid state bonding technology* and is also jointly
filing for a patent for this technology with the Company.The percentage of the Company’s sales provided by its overseas
facilities is increasing each year, reaching 45.4% in FY3/15. Within this
percentage, the Americas provided approximately half, at 23.9%, followed by
China at 8.8%, ASEAN at 7.2%, and Europe at 5.5%. Moreover, approximately one
quarter of overseas sales are exports from Japan and the remainder are products
manufactured by local subsidiaries and purchased sales from overseas partner
companies. The Company’s customers are approximately 400 Japanese automotive
and automotive equipment manufacturers, and even overseas, its customers are
the local subsidiaries of Japanese companies. Over the last several years,
there have be no major changes to its top ranking customers and it delivers
products to various manufacturers without a bias any one particular customer.◆Business Results Trends The third consecutive fiscal
period of higher sales and profits and the second consecutive period of record
profits (1) FY3/15 consolidated
results In
the Company’s FY3/15 consolidated results, net sales increased 1.8% y-o-y to ¥39,849mn,
operating income 10.2% to ¥3,993mn, ordinary income 11.5% to ¥4,176mn, and net
income 18.3% to ¥2,710mn. These results were basically in line with the Company
targets that were upwardly revised in February. This marked the third
consecutive fiscal period of higher sales and profits and the second
consecutive period of records highs in operating income, ordinary income, and
net income. While the automotive production volume of the Company’s main
customers has been sluggish, it has been able to maintain the growth in sales
through acquiring new orders and the effects of the weaker yen. Also, in
addition to the progress made in costs reductions and improving operational
efficiency, factors such as the increase in profits from overseas subsidiaries
due to the weaker yen are contributing to the higher operating income margin,
which rose 0.7 of a percentage point y-o-y to10.0%. This is the first time it
has reached the 10% level since the Company started disclosing its consolidated
financial statements in the fiscal year ended March 1999.Looking at net sales by region, within Japan they increased 1.0%
y-o-y to ¥21,750mn. While the production volume of automakers declined, this
was offset by factors such as the acquisition of new orders, and as a result
sales increased. Overseas net sales rose 2.7% to ¥18,099mn. By overseas region,
the North American automotive market was steady and the Americas’ sales grew
4.0%. In addition, sales rose by 8.0% in China and 38.8% in Europe thanks to
the acquisition of new orders and other factors. Conversely, the effects of the
sluggish automotive production were felt in the ASEAN region, which recorded
the only decline, with net sales down 19.2%.Looking at operating income by
region, in Japan it increased 10.9% y-o-y, rose by 12.2% in the Americas, 25.4%
in China, and 108.9% in Europe, meaning higher operating incomes were recorded
in every region except for ASEAN. Within Japan, factors including cost
reductions and productivity improvements in indirect departments contributed to
the improved performance. In FY3/15, the subsidiary Ohashi Giken, Inc.,
successfully commercialized automotive steering parts by cold forming forging*.
Also, its U.S. subsidiary newly introduced machining processing equipment,
further strengthening its local production capabilities, and this contributed
to the higher sales and profits. The monetary effects of
exchange rate fluctuations on results were ¥1,226mn on net sales and ¥155mn on
operating income, which were major factors behind their respective increases. The
Company’s equity ratio is rising, and its debt-free management and improving
financial conditions are continuing (2)
Financial status Looking
at the Company’s financial status at the end of FY3/15, total assets had
increased ¥3,339mn from the end of FY3/14 to ¥34,891mn. The main factors behind
this were the increases in cash and deposits and inventory in conjunction with
the higher profits, and also an increase in tangible noncurrent assets due to
higher capital investment in Japan and overseas. Liabilities increased ¥56mn from the end of the previous fiscal
period to ¥11,145mn, so were largely unchanged y-o-y, while net assets rose
¥3,282mn to ¥23,745mn. In addition to the rise in retained earnings, the main
reason for this was the increase in the foreign currency translation adjustment
following the depreciation of the yen. During the fiscal period, the Company
acquired treasury shares (880,000 shares, ¥804mn) and it continues to practice
debt-free management, and moreover its equity ratio rose from 63.6% at the end
of the previous fiscal period to 66.9%, indicating that its financial status is
continuing to improve.◆Future Outlook The outlook is for the higher
sales and profits to continue due to factors including costs reductions and the
effects of the weaker yen (1) Business outlook for
FY3/16 The FY3/16 consolidated business outlook is for higher sales and
profits, with net sales up 2.9% y-o-y to ¥41,000mn, operating income up 5.2% to
¥4,200mn, ordinary income up 3.0% to ¥4,300mn, and net income up 3.3% to
¥2,800mn. The severe production conditions among Japanese automakers will
continue in the first half of the fiscal year, but from the second half
onwards, the effects of the weaker yen is expected to contribute to sales, in
addition to the contributions of new orders and cost reductions. Assuming an
exchange rate of ¥115 to the dollar, the weaker yen will increase net sales by
approximately ¥900 to 1,000mn, and operating income by around ¥100mn (a
depreciation of 1 yen to the dollar contributes ¥100mn to net sales and ¥10mn
to operating income).Looking at the outlook by
region, net sales within Japan are forecast to decline 2.8% y-o-y, but
operating income to increase 0.1%. While the decline in net sales will continue
due to the reduction in the automotive production volume within Japan, the
Company expects to maintain operating income at the same level as the previous
fiscal year through cost reductions and improved operational efficiency. Overseas, the Americas are expected to perform solidly, while
signs of a recovery can be seen in ASEAN, and the acquisition of new orders and
the effects of the weaker yen are also expected to contribute to higher sales
and profits. Within the overseas regions, the Mexican sales company started
full-scale operations from the second half of the previous fiscal year will
contribute to sales in the Americas. The severe conditions are set to continue
in the ASEAN and China markets, but in the second half of the fiscal year,
large scale projects are forecast to contribute to sales in ASEAN, while
increased production of car models using parts produced by the Company group is
also planned in China. So for the full fiscal year, higher sales and profits
are expected even on a local currency basis.The FY3/16 sales targets of the three major Japanese automaker
groups, which are the Company’s main customers, are 20,410,000 units, which is
a 2.8% increase y-o-y. Currently, while the North American market is strong,
there are concerns about the sluggishness of the markets in China and Japan.
But as the yen is depreciating more than anticipated, at FISCO we consider that
the Company can achieve its targets on a profits basis.The Company’s FY3/16 capital investment target is an
approximately 50% increase y-o-y to ¥1,300mn. Within this amount, ¥560mn will
be allocated to Japan (¥360mn in the previous fiscal year), with ¥200mn
scheduled for use mainly to update a mission-critical system and ¥200mn to
update subsidiary equipment. For the remainder allocated to overseas of ¥740mn
(¥491mn in the previous fiscal year), ¥200mn will primarily be invested in
increasing the capacity of the Thai subsidiaries, while ¥100mn will be invested
in enhancing equipment at the U.S. subsidiaries. It is also scheduled to be
allocated to the costs of strengthening the manufacturing function in North
America.Aiming for further growth based on the “fabless & factory”
foundation(2) Growth strategy Going
forward, the Company is aiming to achieve further growth through bolstering its
global business structure based on its “fabless & factory” foundation,
building a manufacturing foundation by developing proprietary technologies, and
further improving its competitiveness by strengthening its relations with its
partner companies. It
is strengthening its fabless solution overseas to bolster its global business
structure, including through the start of fully fledged operations at its
Mexican sales subsidiary in 2014 and the establishment of a subsidiary in
Taiwan in April 2015 as a procurement base. In North America also, it is aiming
to strengthen its manufacturing function and to respond to the global business
developments of Japanese automakers, which are its customers. In
terms of its proprietary technological developments, demand for parts that use
the Company’s solid state bonding technology is expected to increase in the
future. A growing number of customers are adopting parts using this technology,
which helps to achieve reduced vehicle weight and cost reductions. Its net
sales are forecast to grow from ¥1,500mn in FY3/15 to ¥2,000mn in FY3/16, while
in the medium term the Company is aiming for sales in the range of ¥3,500mn to
¥4,000mn. This product was jointly developed with and is mass produced by TK
Co., Ltd., into which the Company made a capital contribution in the previous
fiscal period, and it is looking toward its overseas deployment in the future.
It is possible that it will further expand the Group through capital
participation, including by the licensing of technologies to other partner
companies. The
Company is also expanding the production capacities of its various
manufacturing subsidiaries to match demand, while it is also working to improve
the sales cost ratio by developing proprietary processing technologies.
Currently, about 20% of net sales are from products manufactured within the
Group, but in the future this percentage is expected to increase in conjunction
with the expansion of its overseas manufacturing bases. However, due to the
recent depreciation of the yen, rather than local production at overseas
facilities, there are cases starting to appear in which it is more cost
effective to respond to demand by exporting from Japan. Therefore, the Company
is adopting a cautious policy with regards to strengthening its overseas
manufacturing foundation by keeping a close watch on exchange rate
fluctuations. In
the future, the Company’s target customers will remain the same, mainly the
major Japanese automakers. This is because there is still room for the Company
to grow simply by expanding its share of transactions with its existing
customers. In addition, its operating income margin reached the 10% level in
the previous fiscal year, and if its sales scale expands in the future, the
resulting reduction in the SG&A expenses ratio can be expected to raise
this percentage even higher. In terms of its M&A strategy, the Company investigates
candidate companies from which synergies can be expected, such as to strengthen
the manufacturing function and expand sales channels. But for the time being,
we foresee instances of it conducting capital participation with the objective
of strengthening relations with its partner companies.◆Comparison with Industry Peers and the Shareholder Return Policy
Its share price rose about
1.5 times in the last year and it continues to attract interest as a company
achieving stable growth (1) Comparison with industry
peers Against the backdrop of its strong corporate performance, the
Company’s share price rose by about 1.5 times in the last year, but since
entering 2015, it has trended narrowly around the ¥1,600 range. Below, it is
compared to its industry peers from the perspective of corporate value. While
there are no other companies deploying a “fabless &factory” business model
like the Company, 10 industry peer electrical-parts manufacturers were chosen
for the comparison, as like the Company they primarily deal with engine and
related parts, and they are also medium-sized companies.First, in terms of the
expected PER in this fiscal period, the average for the 10 companies is 10.9
times, while the Company’s value is at a level slight below the average, at 8.4
times. Conversely, the average for the PBR (price-to-book-value ratio) is 0.5
times compared to the Company’s 1.0 time, and it has a share price evaluation
comparable to its net assets. Its ROE (return on equity) of 12.0% greatly
exceeds the average of 4.4%, while its ordinary income margin of 10.5% is also
higher than the average of 4.5%. Based on these indicators, the Company’s
capital efficiency and profitability can be highly evaluated. In the future, the Company can be expected to achieve growth
above the industry average through developing its businesses while utilizing
its strengths, which are its “fabless & factory” proprietary business model
and its independence. Moreover, as it has a sound financial position, practices
debt-free management, and is highly resistant to the impact of a recession, it
can be expected to continue to attract attention as a company achieving stable
growth.Based on a stable dividend, it increases dividends to reflect
improved results, and this fiscal year plans to pay a higher divided for the
fourth consecutive period(2) Shareholder return policyFor its shareholder return
policy, the Company has introduced a shareholder special benefit plan, in
addition to paying dividends. While based on a stable dividend, its policy is
to increase the dividend to reflect improved results, aiming for a benchmark
dividend payout ratio of around 20%. In FY3/16, it plans to pay a higher
dividend for the fourth consecutive fiscal period, with a dividend per share of
¥38.0, which is an increase of ¥5 y-o-y (for a dividend payout ratio of 20.7%).
The Company also provides
shareholder special benefits. For shareholders holding more than 100 shares,
twice a year it presents them with rice gift certificates, with the number of
gift certificates corresponding to the number of shares held (given to
shareholders at the end of March and September). It presents shareholders with
one gift certificate (1kg at a value of ¥440) for each 100 shares held, but a
feature of its special benefits plan is its focus on developing long-term
shareholders by providing an additional certificate to shareholders who have
continuously held their shares for more than three years. Therefore,
shareholders who have held 100 shares for more than three years will receive a
total return on investment of around 3.6% based on the current share price (¥1,541
as of July 10). Other than the above, the Company is aiming to improve its
corporate value and as part of this it has positioned ROE (return on equity)
and DOE (dividend on equity) as important management indicators. It is working
to improve these indicators and as a part of these efforts has demonstrated a
policy of flexibly acquiring treasuring shares. 報告內容僅供參考，不得作為任何投資引用之唯一依據，且其投資風險及決定應由投資人自行判斷並自負損益。