TOKAIHoldings(JP-3167)TokyoStockExchangeFirstSectionConsideringenteringtheelectricityretailingmarketwithTokyoElectricPowerCo.(II)
  2015-08-11 提供機構：FISCO 作者：FISCO 點閱次數：7   

◆Business Outlook To promote the conversion of
current broadband customers to collaborative fiber-optic services and enroll
new customers for these services (1) Company forecasts for
FY3/16 For FY3/16, the company forecasts consolidated net sales of
¥192.2bn, up 2.5% y-o-y, operating profit of ¥7.76bn, down 13.8%, recurring
profit of ¥7.41bn, down 13.3%, and net profit of 3.24bn, down 17.7%. The
company foresees profit declines mainly because it intends to increase its
costs by ¥3.0bn to promote sales of its collaborative fiber-optic services in
its broadband business.○Impact of collaborative fiber-optic services on profit At
the end of FY3/15, TOKAI Holdings had 810,000 broadband services customers
throughout Japan. However, since the liberalization of wholesale sales of NTT’s
fiber-optic telecommunications circuits, in February 2015, telecommunications
carriers have been able to expand their internet service provider (ISP)
broadband services, and cell phone carriers, such as NTT DoCoMo, Inc., have
entered the market for broadband services. Thus, the competition for broadband
customers has intensified. Therefore, TOKAI Holdings will encourage its current
broadband customers to convert to one of the company’s collaborative
fiber-optic broadband services and enroll new customers for these services. To
do so, the company will increase its sales promotion expense by ¥3.0bn y-o-y in
FY3/16. For FY3/16, the company plans to convert 260,000 of its current
ISP broadband customers to one of its collaborative fiber-optic broadband
services and to attract 60,000 new customers for these services. However, the
process of changing to collaborative fiber-optic services will be gradual.
Thus, even by FY3/18, the company expects about 40% of its broadband customers
to use ISP services only.TOKAI Holdings has set a
monthly fee of ¥5,100 for its collaborative fiber-optic broadband services,
matching the lowest fee charged in the industry. For new customers who sign up
for one of these services before the end of June 2015, the monthly fee is only ¥4,600
for the first year of service. The company has been charging a monthly fee of ¥1,200
for its ISP broadband services, so a switch to one of its collaborative
fiber-optic broadband services would increase its broadband sales by more than
four times, having a significant impact on operating profit. Of course, the company has to
pay for access to fiber-optic circuits, but it estimates that its collaborative
fiber-optic broadband services will yield 50% more gross profit than its ISP
broadband services. Consequently, if the proportion of its broadband services
provided through collaborative fiber-optic cables grows, its gross profit
margin will decline, but its overall gross profit will increase. Assuming that
the customer acquisition cost for the collaborative fiber-optic services is the
same as that for the ISP services, the increase in the proportion of broadband
services provided by collaborative fiber-optic services would expand profits
substantially. For FY3/16, the company projects a ¥2.7bn y-o-y drop in
operating profit in the broadband services business to ¥700mn, because of the
planned ¥3.0bn increase in sales promotion costs. However, for FY3/17, the
company foresees a y-o-y drop in sales promotion costs, supporting a rise in
business operating profit to ¥3.1bn.○Company forecasts for FY3/16 by business segmentFor the gas and oil business,
the company forecasts a 7.5% y-o-y drop in net sales to ¥86.1bn in FY3/16, but
a ¥200mn rise in operating profit to ¥7.9bn. The business plans to expand its
area of operations into the southern part of the Tohoku region (northeast
Honshu) and into Aichi Prefecture. It also intends to merge or acquire smaller
competitors. Therefore, it anticipates a 13,000 rise in the number of its
customers to 639,000, the first rise in seven years. In Japan’s LPG industry, there
are many small suppliers, but the industry has been consolidating, and the
company foresees further consolidation due to changes in the operating
environment, particularly increased price competition stemming from the package
sale of many services, including electric power and telecommunications
services. The business plans to merge or acquire smaller competitors to
increase its customer base. Despite its expectation of an
increase in the number of customers for the gas and oil business, the company
projects a net sales drop because the business plans to lower its prices to
reflect a decline in its cost of raw materials. However, the company expects
the business to cut costs by ¥1.1bn in FY3/16 through rationalization. This
saving would account for more than half of the operating profit growth
projected by the company. For the information and
telecommunications services business, the company forecasts a 17.7% y-o-y
increase in net sales in FY3/16 to ¥47.2bn but a ¥2.3bn drop in operating
profit to ¥2.7bn. As discussed previously, the company projects a ¥2.7bn y-o-y
decline in operating profit in the broadband services business. However, it
foresees an increase in corporate demand for telecommunication services and system
development, supporting profit growth in this business. The company expects an
18,000 increase in the number of customers for its broadband services and a
5,000 increase in the number of customers for its mobile business. For the cable TV business, the
company forecasts a 1.8% y-o-y rise in net sales in FY3/16 to ¥24.8bn and a ¥100mn
increase in operating profit to ¥1.8bn. By strengthening its sales of
broadcasting and telecommunications services as a set, the company aims to
increase the number of customers for its cable TV business by 22,000 to a total
of 712,000, the first increase in two years. For the water business, the
company expects a 17.0% y-o-y upturn in net sales to ¥5.8bn and a ¥300mn
decline in the operating loss to ¥1.0bn. As it did in FY3/15, the business will
reinforce its sales organizations primarily in Greater Osaka, and in other
areas including Hokuriku and Chugoku. The business anticipates a 16,000
increase in the number of its customers to a total of 146,000. For the construction and real
estate business, TOKAI Holdings foresees a 13.4% y-o-y increase in net sales in
FY3/16 to ¥22.7bn and a ¥400mn rise in operating profit to ¥1.4bn. This
business will stress the construction of new, detached homes in FY3/16, and it
projects a recovery of its home renovation service. To acquire more orders for
its home renovation service, the business will share customer information with
the LPG business as that business expands its area of operations. For other businesses, the
company projects a 12.3% y-o-y rise in net sales to ¥5.6bn in FY3/16 but a ¥100mn
increase in the operating loss to ¥5.1bn. The nursing care business is expected
to lead sales growth again. ○Trends
in key consolidated financial data In FY3/16, the company’s financial status is expected to
continue to improve. The company plans capital investment of ¥15.2bn, which is
¥5.6bn more than its capital investment in FY3/15. This investment will be used
to convert to fiber-optic cables in the cable TV business to strengthen facilities
for the transmission of corporate telecommunications services, for which demand
is strong, and to acquire operating rights for the LPG business. Accompanying
the increase in capital investment, depreciation expense is projected to grow
by about ¥300mn in FY3/16.Despite the planned increase in capital investment, this
investment will remain less than cash flow from operations, so free cash flow
will remain positive. The company plans to use retained earnings to reduce its
interest-bearing debt. Therefore, it projects that its equity ratio will rise
by about 0.4ppt y-o-y to 26.1% at the end of FY3/16.Expanding TLC concept by
selling electricity (2) Preparing to sell
electricity at the retail level On
May 27, 2015, TOKAI Holdings announced that it and Tokyo Electric Power Co.
<9501> were considering tying up to sell electricity. The Japanese market
for retail sales of electricity is scheduled to be completely liberalized as of
April 1, 2016, and TOKAI Holdings hopes to establish a business relationship with
Tokyo Electric Power Co. soon to exploit this growth opportunity. The Japanese
markets for electricity for industrial and commercial uses have already been
liberalized, and TOKAI Holdings has revealed that it plans to start selling
electricity for these purposes in September 2015. The
addition of electric power to its service menu would expand TOKAI Holdings’
ability to serve as a Total Life Concierge and allow the company to expand its
customer base. For Tokyo Electric Power Co., which aims to increase its
customer base outside its traditional area of operations, an alliance with
TOKAI Holdings would give it access to the latter’s sales organization, which
serves a nationwide customer base. TOKAI Holdings now serves 2.54 million
customers. Of these, 1.56 million live in Tokyo Electric Power’s area of
operations and 980,000 live outside that area. Tokyo Electric Power hopes to
acquire the customers outside its area of operations. A
major strength of TOKAI Holdings is its nationwide force of about 800 sales
personnel who acquire about 310,000 new customers each year and maintain
direct, daily contact with the customers to support and manage service
contracts. Each sales person knows all the company’s life infrastructure
services and can propose the ones appropriate to each customer. By
adding electric power to its service menu from April 2016 onwards, the company
should be able to attract more new customers and retain existing customers more
effectively. The direct profit impact of selling electricity on a retail basis
would be small, but the knock-on effect of adding this service would be large. An
important issue facing the company is the low proportion of customers, 7%, who
subscribe to more than one service. The company launched its TLC Membership Service
in 2012 to raise this proportion, and the service has gradually had the desired
effect, but there is still much room for improvement. Therefore, the company is
preparing to establish new fees for services sold as a package and is
considering other measures, such as increasing the points given to members of
the TLC Membership Service for purchasing a service that may be applied to
other services. Aiming
for a consolidated operating profit of ¥12.6bn in FY3/17 (3)
Outline of Innovation Plan 2016 “Growing” In June 2014, the company announced its medium-term plan,
Innovation Plan 2016 “Growing” for the three fiscal years through FY3/17. This
plan has three main objectives: 1) improved sales and profitability by building
up the number of customers; 2) continued improvement of financial structure;
and 3) delivery of steady and sustained returns to shareholders. The plan
targets consolidated net sales of ¥209.5bn and operating profit of ¥12.6bn for
FY3/17.In FY3/15, the company earned a consolidated operating profit of
¥9.0bn, which was ¥800mn more than the target in its medium-term management
plan. Because of a planned increase in costs for selling collaborative
fiber-optic services, the company projects that its operating profit will fall
to ¥7.8bn in FY3/16, which is ¥1.9bn less than targeted in its medium-term
plan. However, the company now foresees a rebound in operating profit to ¥12.7bn
in FY3/17, slightly exceeding the target in its medium-term plan.◆Shareholder Return Policy Maintain stable dividends and
high dividend payout ratio The company’s basic policy toward shareholders is to pay stable
dividends and maintain a dividend payout ratio of 40–50%. For FY3/16, the
company plans to pay dividends of ¥12.0 per share, unchanged from its dividends
for FY3/15. Based on the company’s EPS forecast for FY3/16, the planned
dividends would yield a dividend payout ratio of 42.8%. The company also
presents gifts to its shareholders at the end of every interim period, i.e., at
the end of September, and at the end of each fiscal year. For each unit of
shares held, a shareholder can receive one of the following gifts: ¥1,900 of
bottled water products, such as the Urunon “Fuji-no-tennensui (Mt. Fuji natural
water), a QUO card for ¥500, ¥1,000 of food coupons, or ¥1,000 worth of points
in the TLC Membership Service. 報告內容僅供參考，不得作為任何投資引用之唯一依據，且其投資風險及決定應由投資人自行判斷並自負損益。