ITOCHUENEXCO.,LTD.(JP-8133)TokyoStockExchangeFirstSectionFormulationofTwo-yearMedium-termBusinessPlan
  2015-07-30 提供機構：FISCO 作者：FISCO 點閱次數：9   

A
member of the ITOCHU Corp. (8001) group, Itochu Enex (8133) is an energy
trading company that is playing a pivotal role in the energy field in the
group. Its wide ranging business scope includes selling petroleum products and
liquid petroleum (LP) gas to users ranging from industries to final consumers.
The company’s recent focus has been on expanding the electricity business. The
company has formulated a medium-term business plan called “Moving 2016 —Sowing
seeds for tomorrow—” covering the two years from FY3/16 to FY3/17. The company
has positioned this period as a time to establish a strategy for further growth
while hastening to prepare a platform for full liberalization of the
electricity and gas businesses. The medium-term business plan is a specific
action plan for achieving this. In
its vision for the future, the company looks to augment its energy business,
centered traditionally on petroleum products and LP gas, with the electricity
business, through which it can collaborate and ally with companies in other
industries and become an enterprise that pursues complex business and
synergistic expansion. It is also cultivating operations in the fast-growing
Asian market. Japan
will at last fully liberalize retail sales of electricity (consumer sales of
low-voltage power) from April, 2016. Itochu Enex will endeavor to materialize
its vision for the future by pushing ahead over the next two years with various
preparations for this transformation, completing its foundations for medium-
and long-term growth. Efforts will include securing own base load power
sources, forming alliances to expand power supplies, establishing a retail
electricity sales business model, and building an electricity sales business
network. Itochu Enex is completely devoted to reinforcing its other
business units, centered on petroleum products and LP gas. The company aims to
increase earnings by reorganizing unprofitable Car- Life Stations* (hereinafter
CS) and transactions while bolstering highly profitable businesses and
strengthening overseas operations. Management looks for all business divisions
to strengthen their foundations while pursuing collaboration in-house and
within the group with the electricity business to generate synergies.◆Medium-term Business Plan and Growth Scenario For FY3/17, the company
targets operating profit of ¥20bn, profit of ¥10bn, and an ROE of 9.0% or above
(1) Overview of the new
medium-term business plan “Moving 2016 —Sowing seeds for tomorrow—” Itochu
Enex recently announced Moving 2016, a two-year business plan through FY3/17.
This initiative is a successor to Moving 2014, which was for FY3/15. Moving
2016 is only for two years because there will be full liberalization of the
electricity retail market in FY3/17 and full liberalization of the gas retail
market in FY3/18, with the energy industry landscape expected to transform from
now on. Management likely deemed it more realistic to formulate updated plans
from FY3/18. Under Moving 2016, demand should inevitably decline in the core
petroleum products and LP gas businesses, while full liberalization of the
electricity and gas businesses should drive a reorganization of the energy
industry and intensify cross-sector competition. In light of these factors, the
company has positioned the current medium-term business plan as a period for
sowing the seeds of its long-term growth strategies, and has set about
enhancing its profitability while bolstering its organization and foundations.
For FY3/17, the company targets an operating profit of ¥20bn, profit of ¥10bn,
and an ROE of 9.0% or above.Regarding the petroleum products and LP gas businesses, which
are the current core products of the company, Itochu Enex has accepted that
demand is declining in these fields, but it is referring to structural problems
with the market overall, so this does not mean that the company plans to
discard these businesses. In fact, Moving 2016 is about continuing to pursue
growth. That said, the company may not be able to withstand declining demand,
which stems from structural factors. So, in formulating the current medium-term
business plan, the company has probably acknowledged this operating environment
in adopting a clear stance that it will not rely solely on sales of petroleum products
and LP gas.Electricity business central
to growth scenario (2) Growth scenario and vision
It
seems evident that the electricity business is pivotal to Itochu Enex’s
medium-term growth scenario because of the operating environment assumptions described
earlier and because of measures that the company has taken in the Power &
Utility division since 2010. The company has four business segments. The Home-Life Division
focuses on LP gas, selling city gas and kerosene to households. Sales from the
group are both BtoC and BtoBtoC. The Car-Life Division operates around 2,000
CSs around Japan with these operations selling petroleum products mainly
gasoline and providing comprehensive automotive services. The Power &
Utility Division engages in wholesale through retail electricity sales and
supplying heat to office buildings and large development areas. The Energy
Trade Division supplies petroleum products and materials to the manufacturing,
transportation, and other industries.Historically, the company has expanded on the strength of its
Home-Life, Car-Life, and Energy Trade divisions. Then power liberalization
began through independent power producers (IPPs) in 1995, with Itochu Enex
launching its electricity retailing business in 2010. It entered the power
generation and steam production business in 2011, and made Tokyo Toshi Service
Company, which operates heat supply business, a group company in 2012. Itochu
Enex established the Power & Utility Division in 2013 as its fourth
business segment.Since 2010, Itochu Enex has
strengthened power generation capacity while retailing electricity for
contracts for sales of more than 50 kW to large customers, where liberalization
has progressed. With liberalization extending to contracts for sales of less
than 50 kW and including electricity sales in the retail area (general
households) from April, 2016, the Power & Utility Division should enjoy
expanded business opportunities. As mentioned earlier,
Itochu-Enex served consumer markets for more than 50 years after its founding
through its Home-Life and Car-Life divisions. Over the years, the Home-Life
Division built a direct sales network serving around 330,000 LP gas customers
and a total of 1,080,000 customers (including those through 1,900
distributors). The Car-Life Division grew into a network of around 2,000
Car-Life Stations. The Energy Trade division has corporate customers with about
3,500 business sites. The company’s growth vision centers on these three
divisions and the Power & Utility Division collaborating to expand
electricity retailing. The company's growth scenario extends beyond electricity sales.
It envisages cultivating complex businesses and synergies through
collaborations and alliances with companies in other industries. By supplying
electricity, which is different from selling petroleum products and LP gas, the
company looks to pave the way for collaborating with companies from different
industries that had been beyond its reach.Itochu Enex is one of few
companies that will benefit from liberalization of retail electricity sales (3) Electricity retailing
business model In
2010, Itochu Enex began concluding contracts with large customers for sales of
more than 50 kW. The company’s basic strategy for after the full liberalization
of electricity retailing in 2016 is to reinforce sales to households and other
low-voltage users to drive earnings growth. With the full liberalization of electricity retailing starting
from 2016, the company aims to participate in this area by forming its own balancing
group. Electricity demand fluctuates according to the seasons and time zones.
Maintaining stable supplies of electricity amid such volatility is a key
challenge. Balancing groups (a system of representative PPS’s) alleviate demand
and supply imbalances. Under such a system, PPS’s like Itochu Enex would enjoy
greater economies of scale by forming groups to supply electricity to general
electric utilities (power companies). This system was introduced for the
anticipation of suppressing imbalances and contribute to effective response
measures. Such PPS groups are called balancing groups. Itochu Enex plans to
function as a representative balancing group when electricity retailing is
fully liberalized.Companies would secure opportunities in the supply business by
forming a balancing group and becoming representatives. Such representatives
should hopefully exert a positive influence on cultivating and securing sales
network user PPS’s. Many aspects are currently unclear, including how many
balancing groups are to be formed around Japan. That said, few companies have
the capability to form such entities. Itochu Enex has its own base load power
sources, making it one of few companies that can meet the requirement for
forming balancing groups.Bolstering business
foundation to generate synergies (4) Business division
initiatives Although
collaboration between the company’s four business divisions, centered on the
electricity business, would be important to enhancing the company’s overall
earnings of each of those business divisions is an even higher priority.
Therefore, each business division has formulated specific measures to bolster
its fundamental earning power during the two-year medium-term business plan so
that it can create maximum synergy when the time comes. a)
Home-Life Division Under
the current medium-term business plan, the first priority for the Home-Life
Division is to reinforce direct sales of LP gas. That is because the company
positioned its LP gas buyers as its most important potential customers when
electricity retailing is fully liberalized. The company aims to increase the
number of households buying its LP gas from 326,000 as of the end of March 2015
to 360,000 by the end of March 2016 in preparation for the full liberalization
of the electricity and gas businesses. While expanding the customer base, the
company simultaneously aims to put in place the infrastructure for its
electricity business. The Home-Life Division would collaborate with the Power
& Utility Division to build an electricity sales structure. Although the
company has apparently yet to determine specific initiatives and targets, the
many necessary tasks would include establishing a sales framework, constructing
IT systems, and training staffs. Electricity operations apart, the company aims to solidify its
near-term position by cultivating demand for fuel conversions and expanding
sales of air-conditioning and heating equipment. From a medium-and long-term
perspective, outside Japan the company looks to develop businesses around Asia.
It will start by cultivating the Asian region by drawing on its domestic
expertise in LP gas and industrial gas in collaborating with ITOCHU
Corporation.For FY3/16, the Home-Life Division forecasts are for ¥108,600mn
in sales and ¥5,200mn in operating profit. The FY3/17 projections are for ¥119,400mn
in sales and ¥5,700mn in operating profit. Although the FY3/16 operating profit
goal would be ¥2,300mn higher than the result for the previous fiscal year,
this is not unrealistic. That is because the company has taken into account the
absence of the ¥2,300mn in inventory losses incurred in FY3/15. Although the
structural demand downturns that the Home-Life Division faces in its key
offerings do not engender optimism, the current performance forecasts seem
achievable.b) Car-Life Division The
goals for the Car-Life Division are to reinforce its marketing strategies and
customer relationship management. In other words, the division seeks to build
customer loyalty by using its point-of-sale systems to create a customer
database, bringing out a point card program, and rolling out a new product and
services brand. The division also looks to add value, notably by strengthening
consulting for its approximately 2,000 Car-Life Stations and deploying initiatives
to boost non-petroleum product earnings. Car-Life Division forecasts for FY3/16 are for ¥649,000mn in
sales and ¥4,900mn in operating profit. The FY3/17 projections are for
¥594,100mn in sales and ¥6,000mn in operating profit. The operating income rise
for FY3/16 is expected to stem from a turnaroud as a result of reductions in
the number of unprofitable outlets. The assumptions for FY3/17 are that the
division will benefit from measures to boost Car-Life Station profitability and
from increased earnings stemming from the consolidation of Osaka Car Life Group
Co., Ltd.c) Power & Utility
Division The
focus for the Power & Utility Division will be to prepare for the full
liberalization of retail electricity sales. Specific priorities include forming
a power supply and demand balancing group and establishing a supply and demand
business model to reinforce and cultivate user PPS sales. We described the
balancing group earlier. User PPS’s function like mobile phone shops in the
mobile phone industry. They don’t have their own power sources and collect fees
by selling electricity to end-users. In our view, balancing group efforts are a
pivotal issue alongside the current medium-term business plan because the
nature of the organization that can be achieved, including enterprises within
and outside the group, will dictate sales clout. Power & Utility Division forecasts for FY3/16 are for
¥56,000mn in sales and ¥3,200mn in operating profit. The FY3/17 projections are
for ¥63,400mn in sales and ¥4,300mn in operating profit. We assume that the
main driver in the earnings gain for FY3/17 would be that the division would
benefit from electricity retailing to large customers accumulated in FY3/16,
including through Oji-Itochu Enex Power Retailing.d) Energy Trade Division The
Energy Trade Division essentially focuses on industrial customers, so
collaboration with the Power & Utility Division will not be a contributory
factor for the upcoming household-oriented liberalization of electricity
retailing, since the users will mainly be small users such as households. Under
the current medium-term business plan, the division will leverage its functions
to expand existing operations while undertaking initiatives to reinforce new
businesses. Key efforts will include strengthening the risk management
structure, and bolstering distribution and optimizing assets. New business
efforts will include launching slop and reused oil and fly ash operations,
developing overseas operations, namely in Palau and the U.S., and cultivating
the LNG business in Japan. Energy Trade Division forecasts for FY3/16 are for ¥537,700mn in
sales and ¥3,600mn in operating profit. The FY3/17 projections are for
¥590,000mn in sales and ¥39mn in operating profit. The FY3/16 earnings growth
projection seems significantly greater but is conservative because it would
represent a rebound after inventory-based losses from the asphalt business in
FY3/15.◆Performance Trends Acquisition of Osaka Car Life
Group contributed to performance in previous fiscal year (1) Results for FY3/2015 For
FY3/15 (April 2014 to March 2015), Itochu Enex posted sales of ¥1,373,393mn
(-8.8% YoY), operating profit of ¥13,100mn (+10.3% YoY), profit before tax of
¥12,155mn (-12.2% YoY) and profit of ¥5,503mn (-22.7% YoY). Sales
were down ¥133,200mn from a year earlier. Although the acquisition and
consolidation of Osaka Car Life Group contributed around ¥82,600mn to sales,
offsetting this was a reduction of about ¥215,800mn from a decline in sales
volumes of petroleum products and from a fall in sales prices stemming in line
with plunging crude oil prices. Sales were around ¥226,600mn lower than
management’s forecast, reflecting the revenue impacts of lower volumes and
prices. Operating
profit was about ¥1,200mn higher than a year earlier. While the value of LP gas
inventories cut about ¥2,300mn from earnings, the new consolidation of Osaka
Car Life Group added about ¥1,400mn to earnings, and another ¥1,700mn and about
¥400mn came from extraordinary earnings. The company recorded higher operating
profit despite lower sales because the lower sales were mostly in the Energy
Trade business, which had a minor effect on profits. On the other hand, sales
rose in electricity and other divisions that have a considerable earnings
impact, adding about ¥1,700mn to profits. Earnings were around ¥700mn less than
forecast because of the effect of inventory of LP gas. Profit decreased about ¥1,600mn from a year earlier as a result
of several factors. One was an approximately ¥900mn reversal of deferred tax
assets due to the corporate tax cuts. Another was absence of ¥900mn in special
gains from the previous fiscal year. There was also about ¥200mn less in
divisional earnings (including after an LP gas inventory valuation impact of
¥2,300mn). However, these negative factors were partially offset by the
contribution of about ¥400mn through the consolidation of Osaka Car Life Group.
While profit was around ¥2,100mn below management’s forecast, the principal
factor was the LP gas inventory valuation impact of ¥2,300mn.The lower impact of
inventories is driving earnings higher in FY3/16 (2) Performance Outlook for
FY3/16 and FY3/17 For
FY3/16, Itochu Enex is forecasting sales of ¥1,350,000mn (-1.7% YoY), operating
profit of ¥16,800mn (+28.2% YoY), profit before tax of ¥15,200mn (+25.1% YoY),
and profit of ¥8,200mn (+49.0% YoY). Under the current medium-term business
plan, for FY3/17 the company forecasts sales of ¥1,370,000mn (+1.5%), operating
profit of ¥20,000mn (+19.0%), and profit of ¥10,000mn (+22.0%). The
segment earnings forecasts are as described earlier. On a companywide basis,
management projects significant operating profit increases for the Home-Life
and Energy Trade divisions, as inventory valuations reduced their earnings in
the previous period, and this will no longer be a factor in FY3/16. The
forecast of an approximately ¥400mn rise in Car-Life Division operating profit
largely factors in a turnaround accompanying the closures of unprofitable
outlets. With operating conditions adverse in the petroleum products and LP gas
sectors, these forecasts are conservative. While there is probably not much
upside scope, we think that the current forecasts are amply achievable. For FY3/17, the increase in earnings for the Home-Life and Power
& Utilities divisions should be about ¥500mn and ¥1,100mn, respectively.
The increase of about ¥1,100mn for the Car-Life business would derive mainly
from a turnaround accompanying the closure of unprofitable outlets, as well as
from the expansion of Osaka Car Life Group earnings and expected increase in
profits from automotive businesses. Much of the projected earnings growth for
the Osaka Car Life Group would come from Nissan Motor’s model change cycle. The
forecast for the Energy Trade Division apparently reflects an earning boost
that would come from demand recoveries (including in the asphalt and AdBlue
businesses).◆Shareholder Returns Payout ratio target of 30% or
more, dividends to increase with profit growth Itochu
Enex has positioned dividends as the fundamental means of returning profits to
shareholders. The company has adopted a basic policy of balancing internal
reserves for growth investments with the payout of consistent, steady dividends
to shareholders. At the same time, the company is targeting a consolidated
dividend payout ratio of 30% or more. For FY3/15, the company paid an annual dividend of ¥22, an
increase of ¥2 YoY, comprising an interim dividend of ¥11 and a year-end
dividend of ¥11. The dividend payout ratio exceeded the target of 30% at 45.2%.
The ¥22 dividend was originally determined in line with a forecast for profit
growth and to maintain a dividend payout ratio of 30%; however, in the end
result profit declined YoY. We believe reasons why the company nevertheless
paid the forecast ¥22 dividend were 1) because of its stance on emphasizing
shareholders, namely by meeting their expectations, and 2) because it is
confident of a return to profit growth going forward.For FY3/16, the company is forecasting a dividend of ¥24
(interim dividend: ¥12, year-end dividend: ¥12), reflecting a projected 48.0%
Y-o-Y increase in profit to ¥8,200mn. This represents a dividend payout ratio
of 33.1% based on projected earnings per share. The company has not announced a
dividend forecast for FY3/17, however it has clearly indicated a policy of
maintaining the payout ratio of 30% or more. We therefore consider it perfectly
rational for shareholders to expect shareholder returns to expand in line with
profit growth. 報告內容僅供參考，不得作為任何投資引用之唯一依據，且其投資風險及決定應由投資人自行判斷並自負損益。