STARTIA,INC.(JP-3393)TokyoStockExchangeFirstSectionPreparingtoreaccelerategrowthandgreatlyincreaseearnings,focusingonnewproducts
  2015-07-08 提供機構：FISCO 作者：FISCO 點閱次數：18   

Startia <3393> serves
small and medium-sized companies with fewer than 300 employees. Large system
integrators and network equipment dealers bypass such companies, which
typically cannot maintain full-time IT personnel. Startia provides one-stop
IT-related services for these companies, constructing, operating, and
maintaining hardware through systems for them. Startia’s key advantage is its robust marketing approach, which entails
getting geographically close to clients to devise ways to facilitate
cross-selling and offer merchandise that locks clients in. Management targets \3,400mn in
aggregate recurring profit under its New Three-Year Medium- Term Ordinary
Income Plan, which ends in FY3/18. The target for FY3/15, the first year, was
\866 mn, the same as the level for the previous fiscal year. Management has
accelerated the target growth pace for the second and third years to \1,134 mn
and \1,400 mn, respectively. Recurring profit in FY3/15 was
\878 mn, which was \12 mn higher than targeted. Management undertook various
strategic steps during the year to pave the way for earnings expansion over the
medium term. The company deployed a rapid succession of initiatives to position
itself for growth. Efforts included moves to reinforce the security of hosting
services, acquiring businesses, undertaking business and capital tieups, and
strengthening overseas operations. Forward investment measures should have
settled in place in FY3/16, by which time the company will likely leverage its
more robust sales structure to again drive forward to secure top-line growth. Startia is intensively developing new products and services for
next-generation growth. Releases in FY3/16 include AppGoose and Startia Hikari.
The AppGoose service makes it simple for small and mid-sized stores to engage
in online-to-offline marketing, which has become a focus of attention. Startia
Hikari is the brand for services launched through participation in NTT’s Hikari Collaboration service. We believe that both AppGoose
and Startia Hikari will start contributing fully to Startia’s earnings from FY3/17. The initial year launches will command
considerable attention, as these services have high growth potential.◆Description of
businesses Providing an integrated IT
environment to small and medium-sized companies Hideyuki Hongo, the President, Representative Director and Chief
Executive Officer, established Startia in 1996. It started out by selling
business phones, expanding by offering Web hosting (rental servers) and other
services with the spread of the Internet. Startia’s business model focuses on serving small and medium-sized
companies with fewer than 300 employees, which are often ignored by the
competition, helping these entities overcome weak IT capabilities by providing
an integrated IT environment. Startia currently provides one-stop solutions in
the three business areas below.(1) Web solutions related
business The wholly owned Startia Lab,
Inc., oversees the Web solutions business. This segment focuses on developing
and selling ActiBook e-book production software and selling the COCOAR
augmented reality service. Both are apparently very high-margin offerings,
enabling this segment to account for almost half of Startia’s operating income. This business provides website
production, operations, and maintenance services. It also supplies log analysis
and search engine optimization and management services. Startia released AppGoose in
FY3/16. We will detail that product later in this report, but in essence,
AppGoose makes it simple for small and medium-sized enterprises and stores to
produce online-to-offline applications and marketing campaigns. (2) Network solutions related
business The network solutions business
engages in internal IT network construction. It provides integrated hardware
and software assistance. On the hardware side, it sells routers, firewalls, and
other network equipment and provides network construction and other equipment.
On the software side, this business also proposes optimal Internet service
provider support that reflects client needs and scales and other factors. Startia assists clients after
network completion, supplying rental servers and the Secure SAMBA and
Digit@Link Cloud services. Its offerings also include the Global Gateway
dedicated line linking Japan and China and NetResQ, a maintenance service for
the networks of small enterprises. (3) Business solutions
business The business solutions segment
focuses on selling and maintaining wireline telephones and corporate mobile
phones, copiers, and the Otoku Line service. The business model for many
products in this segment is a stock-based revenue structure. Therefore,
although margins are low this segment can stably amass earnings. In May this year, the company
launched Startia Hikari, the brand for a retail business for fiber-optic lines.
Startia is a provider under the Hikari Collaboration service of NTT
<9432>. This new service could put the business solutions segment back on
track for growth. We will discuss details later in this report. ◆Profit structure and
strengths Emphasizing flow sales growth
over stock sales proportion gains (1) Profit structure Startia derives its profits from one-time sales (flow) and monthly
revenues (stock). Clients can choose from flow or stock options (one example
being ActiBook e-book software). In other cases, a dual flow and stock
structure applies. An example of this is multi-functional printers (MFPs), for
which a one-time sale is recorded to purchase a unit, with monthly revenues
accruing from MFP counter fees (charging for paper, toner, and other
consumables). Flow sales currently account for 66.5% of net sales, with stock
sales representing 33.5%.The higher the stock sales proportion,
the more stable the results. Startia, however, maintains a dual flow and stock
sales structure for much of its merchandise and services. In addition, the
company could provide ActiBook on a stock sales basis, selling on installment,
or on a flow basis, which would clearly be more effective in boosting results
in a single fiscal year. We believe that Startia should be seen as focusing
more on flow sales growth and less on stock sales proportion gains. Successfully deploying highly
efficient marketing strategy (2) Key factors in strong
marketing capabilities Startia’s strong marketing capabilities are central to its growth. The
company has successfully devised its own approach to reinforce marketing and
turn it into a strength. The first factor is Startia’s business focus. Most of its clients are small and medium-sized
enterprises with fewer than 300 employees. There are around 5.43 million such
companies around Japan. Many do not have in-house IT engineers. Yet, systems
integrators and network equipment dealers generally ignore them because they
are so small. Startia’s business purpose is to step
into this IT void and eliminate the digital divide for these enterprises. This
means that Startia’s salespeople have to be
physically near client enterprises. The company therefore set about expanding
sales to clients its people can reach in around an hour and a half. Startia
accordingly markets in areas with high population concentrations, notably
metropolitan Tokyo, and the Kansai, Tokai, and Kyushu areas. The focus is on
being close to clients rather than having a presence in Japan’s four major metropolitan areas. The second factor is that Startia has multiple offerings that it
can exploit in cross-selling. For example, it can package business phones with
MFPs or provide a package that combines hosting services with network equipment
and construction. From the client perspective, the company has a lineup of
complementary offerings. Startia’s slim billing service is a
one-stop billing system covering multiple services from the company. The
benefit for clients is that they can contact a single inquiry desk. This is not
only more convenient for clients but also helps reduce their administrative and
accounting workloads. This is a great motivator for companies to order packages
of Startia’s IT services. In short, Startia adds
one-stop solutions for IT infrastructure and slim billing to achieve
cross-selling.As discussed earlier, Startia
has combined its focus on close proximity to clients with proposing a product
and service lineup that enhances client convenience as part of a highly
efficient marketing strategy that has successfully increased multiple
purchasing per client while expanding client numbers. ◆Medium-term income
plan and new services Accelerating to regenerate
profit growth from this fiscal year (1) Overview of medium-term
income plan Startia announced its New Three-Year Medium-Term Ordinary Income
Plan on August 20, 2014. The first noteworthy aspect of this initiative is that
the company is targeting \3,400 mn in aggregate recurring profit over the three
years through FY3/17. This would be 71.2% higher than the \1,986 mn generated
in the preceding plan. The next key point of the plan is that management looks
to maintain the initial year recurring profit at the FY3/14 level and
accelerate growth in the second and third years.This is apparently the first
time for Startia to formulate a medium-term income plan that takes such an
approach. We think that the company did so because it has already reached a
certain earnings level stemming from ongoing expansion since its establishment
and wants to prepare for the next stage of growth. Management itself has
characterized the flat recurring profit projection for FY3/15 as “a forward investment.”
The greatest of several such investments will be on improving security for the
network solutions business. From the outset, the company factored in such
efforts as hiring and training large numbers of new graduates and beefing up
its global strategies. Exceeding recurring profit
projection and increasing technological division engineers as proportion of
employee number (2) Progress assessment:
FY3/15 results In FY3/15, the first year of the current medium-term income
plan, Startia posted \8,682 mn in net sales (YoY +6.3%), \747 mn in operating
income (YoY +10.0%), \878 mn in recurring profit (YoY +2.6%), and \592 mn in
net profit (YoY +37.2%). Although net sales and operating income were \566 mn
and \93 mn, respectively, lower than management’s forecasts, recurring profit, a key performance indicator under
the medium-term income plan, was \12mn higher than projected.The main factors in sales and
operating income shortfalls below projections were that all businesses,
particularly Web solutions, performed more sluggishly than expected in the
third quarter. The Web solutions shortfall stemmed from insufficient marketing
capabilities despite endeavoring to shift the sales focus from ActiBook to
COCOAR, with new graduates spearheading that effort, and COCOAR sales
decelerating. In the fourth quarter, the company was unable to offset third
quarter shortfalls despite regaining momentum. Recurring profit was ¥12 mn higher than forecast, as equity in earnings of affiliates
increased ¥46 mn, while there was a ¥47 mn foreign exchange gain. The table below presents key initiatives during FY3/15. Startia
invested in security as planned, upgrading to new servers and installing new
security software. The company recruited 84 new graduates, representing around
20% of its employees, with around 60 of those new hires still with the company
as of the end of FY3/15. The year was noteworthy for business and capital
alliances to secure new people and boost personnel capacity. Startia set up a
branch in Taiwan during the year. The company had previously marketed its
offerings there exclusively through local entity Horma Digital Technology (in
which it acquired a 39.76% stake in June 2013). With the new Taiwanese branch,
Startia retained that setup while stepping up operational oversight, apparently
with considerable success.As well as hiring new graduates in FY3/15, Startia took on
engineers from the businesses of Next IT Inc. and Issei Business Machines. The
group thus had 554 employees at year-end. It is worth noting that the number of
technical operations people is rising as a proportion of all employees.Launching two new products
this term that could drive growth (3) Key new products Startia made forward
investments in FY3/15 to drive growth. The company aims to return to an
expansionary trajectory from FY3/16. In that year, it plans to release two new
products that could become growth engines, building on the successes of such
offerings as ActiBook, COCOAR, and Secure SAMBA. (a) AppGoose Online-to-offline marketing is
attracting considerable attention in the retailing sector. Typical examples
online include distributing discount coupons or providing bricks and mortar
store location or event information to encourage visits to those stores. To execute online-to-off-line
marketing, stores have to develop their own apps, which consumers must download
from the App Store or Google Play. Stores then distribute coupons and event and
other information through the apps. This is one hurdle to stores developing
their own apps. Startia’s AppGoose service offers two
key advantages. The first is that stores that do not have their own apps can
use Startia’s GOOSEE app to distribute coupons and
event and other information. Second, it enables stores that want to engage in
online-to-offline marketing with their own apps to create them simply
(distributing coupons and information through the apps). Startia’s business model is to charge stores an initial fee and then a
monthly usage charge.(b) Startia Hikari NTT <9432> made it
possible for service providers to wholesale FLET’s Hikari fiber-optic broadband connections, which it previously
marketed itself. Those providers can add Hikari to their own services and sell
them to consumers at fees that those companies set independently. This setup is
called the Hikari Collaboration Service. Providers are called Hikari
Collaboration businesses. Startia is one such business, marketing its service
package under the Startia Hikari brand. Consumers using FLET’s
Hikari can switch to services from Startia Hikari or other Hikari Collaboration
businesses, without needing to change their phone numbers or commission
construction work for the changes and only requiring a change in contract form.
The usage environment remains the same for consumers after the change, as the
contracts allow them to continue using services that are available only from
NTT.◆Operational results
and financial analysis Significantly higher revenues
and earnings in each segment in near absence of factors constraining
profitability (1) Outlook for FY3/16 Management’s forecasts for FY3/16 are for ¥10,000 mn in sales (YoY +15.2%), ¥1,134 mn in operating income (YoY +51.8%), ¥1,134 mn in recurring profit (YoY +29.2%), and ¥567 mn in net profit (YoY -4.2%). Although the company looks for
significantly higher revenues and earnings in each segment, it is important to
assess this information carefully because of transfers between some product
segments. Management forecasts sales of ¥2,523 mn (YoY +23.6%) in the Web solutions business. We believe
that most of that growth would come from COCOAR. Development costs are low for
this offering, partly because it is a derivative of ActiBook, and the very high
profitability of this product makes it attractive. The AppGoose service will
probably not contribute fully to earnings until FY3/17 onward, as sales will
not kick in during this inaugural year until customers learn of the
convenience, utility, and usage advantages. That said, online-to-offline
marketing is attracting a lot of attention because it is easy to understand its
impact, so AppGoose could have more scope for growth than expected. The sales projection for the
network solutions business is ¥2,429 mn (YoY -0.1%). One
factor in that decline would be that Startia has transferred the NetResQ
service from the network solutions business-to-business solutions, lowering
network solutions sales by around ¥350
mn. Management looks to compensate for the NetResQ transfer by increasing sales
of Secure SAMBA as a Saas-based online storage service and sales of network
equipment. The sales projection for the business solutions segment is ¥4,986 mn (YoY +18.5%). The company looks to significantly
increase MFP sales after adding new models once it sells out predecessor ones.
The accumulated unit sales growth of MFPs should greatly increase counter
fee-based revenues and drive segment sales growth. Management estimates sales
of ¥80 mn to ¥90 mn for the new Startia Hikari service, and it will be worth
monitoring sales trends in this area as salespeople will probably find the
service easier to promote than the copper-based Otoku Line service.On the earnings front, most of the elements that constrained
profitability in FY3/15 should be absent in FY3/16. Expenditure to reinforce
server security peaked during FY3/15, and this factor should add around ¥30 mn to the bottom line this fiscal year. Startia hired 70 new
graduates in spring this year. Management has drawn on the experience of FY3/15
to modify its strategies for cultivating and training new hires and handling
merchandise, changing its approach so people gain confidence quicker. This
effort seems to be steadily bearing fruit. We think that the company will be
well placed to absorb the impacts of higher personal expenses and spending on
20th anniversary celebrations on selling, general and administrative expenses
if it reaches its sales goals.ROE trending above average
for Japanese companies and international standards (2) Financial status analysis In FY3/15, Startia’s ROE reached 15.9%. This was not only higher than the average
for Japanese companies but also exceeded the 15% average internationally. That
said, it is important that this ROE reflected a nonrecurring factor, notably
the sale of investment securities that boosted net income by ¥52 mn that year. Still, Startia’s ROA was a solid 16.2%, so we can say that its ROE was of a
very high quality. Our ROE forecast for FY3/16 is 13.5%, calculated from total
assets and shareholders equity estimates based on management’s assumptions. A decline in the ratio of gross profits to sales
would have a great impact. Management forecasts great differences in recurring
profit and net income because of the company’s normal tax rate. We believe that there is ample potential for
net income to be higher than management envisages, in which case ROE could be
more than 13.5%.◆Shareholder’s return Company emphasizing
individual shareholders and pursuing shareholder returns Startia is emphasizing
individual shareholders and pursuing shareholder returns. Dividends are
fundamental to that approach, and management has determined dividends that
strike a balance with the internal reserves set aside for growth investments. Management was previously
committed to a payout ratio of 10%. In FY3/14, the company paid a dividend of ¥15 per share to commemorate listing on the first section of the
Tokyo Stock Exchange, thereby raising the payout ratio to 17.6%. From FY3/15,
the company listed the target payout ratio to 15%. A dividend of ¥20 per share in FY3/15 to mark the company’s 20th anniversary increased the payout ratio to 17.2%. In FY3/16, management plans to pay dividends of ¥17 per share. That would represent a payout ratio of 15.3% on
the projected net income per share of ¥111.24
yen. If earnings expand even further, we could anticipate commensurately higher
dividends, with management possibly raising its payout ratio targets over the
medium and long terms. 報告內容僅供參考，不得作為任何投資引用之唯一依據，且其投資風險及決定應由投資人自行判斷並自負損益。