MIROKUJYOHOSERVICE(JP-9928)TokyoStockExchangeFirstSectionSustainableGrowthandEstablishmentofaNewEarningsFoundationDriveRecordEarnings(II)
  2015-01-27 提供機構：FISCO 作者：FISCO 點閱次數：15   

◆3rd Medium-term
Management Plan Aiming for Net Sales of
\26,000mn and Ordinary Income of \4,000mn in FY3/17 In May 2014, MJS announced its
3rd Medium-term Management Plan, which started from FY3/15. Under the
management vision of “challenging the creation of
new value,” the company has positioned the next
three years as a startup period to a new growth stage. MJS’s management targets for
FY3/17, the final fiscal year of the plan, are net sales of \26,000mn, ordinary
income of \4,000mn, net income of \2,450mn, ROE of 15%, and an ordinary income
margin of 15%. As such, the company’s
policy is to promote growth strategies. That’s a compound average annual growth rate (CAGR) over the next
three years of 5.6% for net sales, 18.2% for ordinary income, and 20.8% for net
income. It is nearly the same CAGR achieved during the Second Medium-term
Management Plan (5.6% for net sales, 17.6% for ordinary income, and 25.4% for
net income.MJS has three basic policies for the 3rd Medium-Term management
plan: 1. Enlarge the customer base by strengthening sales activities and
expanding sales channels, 2. Develop and offer new products and services to
create new customers, and 3. Build a new foundation for earnings by new
businesses. With regard to its policies of “Develop and offer new products and services to create new
customers,” and “Build a new foundation for earnings by new businesses,” the company has started three new businesses, whose status is
discussed below.Focus on Creating New
Profitable Businesses by Utilizing the Existing Customer Base (1) Going into new businesses
that support business succession and revitalization of small and medium-sized
companies MJS decided to go into
business supporting business succession and revitalization of small and
medium-sized companies, and established MJS M&A Partners as a wholly-owned
subsidiary in September 2014. The new company will start its business
activities in early 2015. MJS already offers a service supporting business
succession for tax accountant and CPA firms, and now plans to use its
accumulated experience and expertise to offer business succession and revitalization
of small and medium-sized companies and to develop advisory services from the
perspective of such companies. To this end, the company aims to become Japan’s largest sell-side platform company, basically standing on the
sell-side in M&A negotiations and negotiating conditions with buyers such
as financial institutions or M&A operators to conclude a contract. As a business scheme, the company will conclude a service
provision agreement and receive introductions from tax accounting offices and CPA
firms to client companies who need to cede their businesses or divest them. The
company will then make an advisory agreement with the client company and begin
negotiations with the buy-side company. MJS has around 8,400 customers among
tax accounting offices and CPA firms offering advisory services to around
500,000 small- and medium-sized client companies. If 20% of these were target
users for the service, the market would be approximately 100,000 companies, so
there is plenty of latent growth potential.Initially the subsidiary started with a staff of around 5 and
plan for these personnel to coordinate with the nearly 500 sales and support
personnel in MJS. This is the reason why the president and director of the
subsidiary will be concurrent positions occupied by the general manager and
assistant manager of MJS’s sales division. Moreover, as
an outside director, the subsidiary has appointed Mr. Suzuki, a former
administrator of the Small and Medium Enterprise Agency. Mr. Suzuki’s extensive knowledge and network are expected to help drive
business expansion. The current net sales target for the subsidiary for FY3/17
is \1,000mn.Aiming to Establish a New
Foundation for Earnings through Content and Apps (2) Aggressively expanding the
Internet business MJS has been strengthening the
Internet business as a second business in its efforts to “build a new foundation for earnings by new businesses.” Advertising revenues from the company’s business information website, bizocean, have expanded to
around \400mn per year, and the company plans to focus on achieving even
greater profitability for bizocean by providing fee-paying services. The
website provides various document templates for free download, primarily for
use by corporations in their business operations. It also features a large
volume of essential content for business people. Free registration members have
now reached around 1.3 million, and the website continues to increase its
following by around 1,000 members a day. Looking ahead, the company expects to
increase the website’s contribution to earnings
with the future development of fee-paying contents. In an effort to gain access to
the consumer market, the company developed and launched a free money management
app, Money Tracker, in 2013. However, although downloads have now exceeded
200,000, they are currently struggling to grow further. The company is
therefore aiming to achieve 1 million downloads through function enhancement
and overseas development of the app, among other measures, in an effort to
evolve it into a service that can be monetized. Including bizocean, the new
Internet businesses are aiming to achieve net sales of \1,000mn in FY3/17. Laying the Foundations for
New Customer Development through a Capital and Business Alliance with a South
Korean Company (3) Capital and Business
Alliance with Webcash of South Korea As one of its initiatives to “Develop and offer new products and services to create new
customers,” the company concluded a capital and
business alliance in October 2014 with Webcash, a top-class South Korean IT
company in e-finance technology. The alliance will bring together the
technologies and expertise of both partners to help them break into new markets
and expand their business activities by jointly developing new cloud services,
such as various business software and financial management and capital
management services.Through this alliance, MJS
acquired 5% of the outstanding shares of Webcash, and has established a joint
venture in Japan, Miroku Webcash International Co., Ltd. (40% investment). The
joint venture will modify the business software and financial management and
capital management cloud services developed by Webcash to suit Japanese
specifications and sell them in the Japanese market. Webcash corporate cash
management services are currently used by 50% of South Korea’s more than 10,000 large and mid-sized companies and more than
50,000 of the country’s small and medium-sized
companies. In developing cloud services
going forward, MJS will develop new services that incorporate Webcash’s technology and will also be looking to move into new markets
in the future, including overseas development. In the cloud business centered
on this alliance MJS is targeting net sales of \500mn in FY3/17. For the three new businesses mentioned above, MJS will target
total net sales of \2,500mn in FY3/17, with an ordinary income margin at the
30% level.◆Comparative Share
Price Valuation Low PER/PBR and High Dividend
yield Compared to Industry Peers We conducted a comparison with
respect to MJS’s share price valuation against 12
corporate peers that provide financial and accounting systems in addition to
ERP system vendors. The company’s share price has risen over
the past six months from the \400 level to the late \600 level, however
expected PER, actual PBR and ROE were all lower than the 12-peer average, and
indicators such as ROA and dividend yield were all at high levels. Notably,
compared to major ERP system vendors, the levels of the company’s earnings indicators such as ROE and ROA compared favorably,
but PER an PBR were low. MJS’ operating results are on
track to set record high profits, and we feel there are many points on which
the company should be positively evaluated, such as projections for sustained
growth,, maintaining an ROE of 10% or higher, which is viewed as a key
investment criteria going forward, and expectations for growth in new businesses
such as business revitalization support services. 報告內容僅供參考，不得作為任何投資引用之唯一依據，且其投資風險及決定應由投資人自行判斷並自負損益。