DynamJapanHoldings(HK-06889)HongKongStockExchangeLow-costoperationsbasedonthetheoryofchain-storeoperationsisthecompany’sstrength
  2015-07-08 提供機構：FISCO 作者：FISCO 點閱次數：20   

Dynam
Japan Holdings Co., Ltd. (HK06889) is a holding company and its subsidiaries
include DYNAM Co., Ltd., one of Japan’s largest operators of pachinko and
pachinko slot halls with the largest number of halls operated and the second
largest in terms of ball rental fee income. The Dynam Group’s strength and
characteristics lie in its low-cost operations worked out based on the theory
of chain-store operations, which are thoroughly applied to newly opened halls
as well as daily hall operations. In addition, the Company is the first in its
industry to be listed on a stock market, which is a result of its management
having won recognition for its full enforcement of customer-first creed,
information disclosure, and compliance management, and others. In
FY3/15, the Company reported decreases in both sales and profit. Just looking
at the reported figures may make you take it that the Company l did not survive
gusty adverse winds. However, it was totally different. The pachinko industry
has fallen into a negative spiral and it is going into a shakeout stage in
which surviving players can dominate the market. The Company’s decline in
profit this time is a result of its bold policy to establish a position as a
survivor in the future. The
contents of the policy that the Company has taken are renewing halls and
increasing customer return. As for policies, they are common, but they are not
something anyone can do under the present industry circumstances. The Company
has financial strength as one of Japan’s largest operators of halls as well as
knowhow of low-cost operations based on the theory of chain-store operations,
and, therefore, we are of the opinion that because of the advantages’ the
Company has, being as described above, it could take such policies. It is important to note that the policies taken during FY3/15
brought clear results. With such results, in FY3/16, the Company intends to
substantially increase the number of halls to renew, aiming to return to a
growth path unswayed by the overall trend in the industry. For FY3/15, the
Company maintained the same level of dividend payment as the previous fiscal
year despite a large decline in profit. We believe that the Company did so
because it had confidence in operating results recovery for FY3/16, and if it
succeeds in business recovery for this fiscal year, confidence will increase
for the Company to continue a profit increase over the medium- to long-term. We
would like to watch closely as FY3/16 will highly likely be a crucial year to
test potential.◆Industry circumstances
for FY3/14 While maintaining the customer-first creed, improve the
gross profit margin by increasing the ratio of low playing cost machines (1) Long-term trend The
pachinko market has been seeing continuous contraction. In the peak year of
1995, sales in the pachinko industry were ¥30.9 trillion but decreased to ¥18.8
trillion in 2013. Namely, over the period of 18 years from 1995 to 2013, it
decreased by a yearly average of 2.2%. Naturally, in accordance with the
decrease in sales, the number of pachinko halls also decreased from 17,631 to
10,873 by a yearly average of 2.1% during the same period. More serious is a
decrease in game players, which decreased from 29 million to 9.7 million or
about one third. This is a yearly average of 3.7% that largely surpassed the
decreasing pace of sales and the number of halls. Factors for decreases in game players probably differ depending
on the time. However, we think that the decreases in the past several years are
attributable to the popularization of smartphones. A group of people who used
to play pachinko in their leisure time must have moved to smartphones. Although
this trend must apply to all generations, from a medium- to long-term
perspective we are most concerned about fewer young people being attracted to
pachinko.(2) FY3/15 overview On
top of the above-mentioned long-term trend, another negative factor of the
consumption tax rate increase was added in FY3/15. Since no particular
influence was seen until around May 2014, the entire industry including the
Company ended up misled in terms of the influence of the consumption tax rate
increase. The
tax increase started to affect the industry in summer or later, especially in
the third quarter (October – December) when there was a sizable drop in
customer visits. The amount spent per visitor was assumed to be lower, and
pachinko machine utilization rate (number of balls shot per day per machine)
decreased by 5% - 10% from the first quarter to the third quarter. The Company has made a survey on the numbers of customers with
competitors’ 1,300 pachinko and pachislot halls located in the neighborhood of
its halls over the country. Using H1 FY 3/13 as a base of 100, the number of
customers decreased to 90.7 for pachinko and 88.9 for pachislot by H2 FY3/15FY.In the pachinko industry,
another phenomenon made customers leave pachinko. It was the increase in gross
profit margin. In the accounting for a pachinko hall, ball rental fee income as
rental fee sales of pachinko balls will become gross sales. If you deduct cost
of prizes from gross sales, it is operating revenue. The cost of prizes is a total
amount of all prizes (cost) given out in exchange of balls or medals customers
have won. Thus, the ratio of cost of prizes to ball rental fee income can give
an indication of customer return. Gross profit margin is the ratio of
operational profit to ball rental fee income, which is the reverse side of the
ball discharge rate viewed from the customer side. That is to say, an increase
in gross profit margin would mean a decrease in the ball discharge rate from
the customers’ side, which has added momentum to keeping customers away from
pachinko. On the pachinko hall management side, gross profit margin would have
to be raised if a certain amount of profit needs to be secured while customers
are decreased. Even the Company that adopts the customer-first creed had a
gross profit margin with an upward trend. The Company is taking a strategy of
raising the ratio of low playing cost machines, which would bring higher gross
profit margins compared with high playing cost machines. We consider that such
a machine lineup has boosted its company-wide gross profit margin. Since the
situation is as described above even with the Company, other companies or the
entire industry should never be better in this regard.To summarize the situation, at
a time when there was a decline in customers due to the dissemination of
smartphones and the consumption tax rate increase, the halls chose to ensure
profit by squeezing the ball discharge rate, which further decreased customers,
resulting in a negative spiral. That was FY3/15. We are concerned that this negative spiral is not something
temporary but rather structural. Whereas a larger background for this is
Japan’s population decrease and the progress of an aged society (namely, a
decline in the younger generations), the immediate factor is the emergence of
smartphones in the midst of customer needs changing from winning prizes as the
main reason to time-consumptive leisure enjoying the time engaged in playing.
Our thought would be that if this is really a structural issue, the pachinko
industry may have come all the way to a stage seeking a survivor’s advantage.Large-scale renewal of halls and increase in customer
return Initiatives of the Dynam Group
The
Company group implemented extreme measures in Q4 FY3/15 to cut off the above-mentioned
negative spiral. They are large-scale hall renewal work and customer return
increase. Starting from the conclusion, the effects of these measures were
explicit. We will elaborate on the Dynam Group’s measures below. (1)
Hall renewal work The
Company refurbished halls to recover customers. It conducted renewal work on 40
halls with high playing cost machines in a short and intensive way. There
seem to be two reasons for choosing halls with high playing cost machines for
renewal. One reason is that halls with high playing cost machines are
comparatively old since halls of low playing cost machines have continued to be
opened in the past several years. The other is that halls with high playing
cost machines would enjoy a larger effect at the time of customer traffic
recovery because they have higher operational profit compared to halls with low
playing cost machines. Items
for renewal were all of major interior and exterior locations such as floor,
wall cloth, toilet, exterior wall, outer circumference, advertisement tower,
parking lot (paving/line drawing), and seats. Depending on each hall’s recent
maintenance situation, renewal contents varied for each hall, but wall cloth
was changed at all 40 halls, toilets were completely renewed at more than 20
halls, and the floor was changed at nearly 10 halls. In addition, at almost all
of the 40 halls, the exterior walls, outer circumference and advertisement
towers were renewed, and at 80 to 90% of the 40 halls, seats, the modesty panel
and end plate were renewed. These large-scale renewals made the halls look like
new ones. Total
expenses for renewal would be ¥2,000mn if the average per hall were ¥50mn,
although expenses varied for each hall. A part of the total amount was posted
as expenses during FY3/15 and the balance was posted as assets for which
depreciation cost was posted as expenses at the same time. Further, the
opportunity loss due to non-operation during the renewal period became another
factor for the Company’s decreased profit. The
Company also implemented a variety of measures for hall investments, besides
the above-mentioned special hall renewal, such as introduction of a personal
system used to reduce personnel expenses in hall operations, introduction of
popular machines and sales promotions. By our calculation, the total influence
in terms of reduction of profits due to the abovementioned hall renewals and
investments amounted to about ¥1,500mn. (2)
Increase in customer return The
other measure was an increase in customer return. While it is quite natural for
a decrease in customers at halls with comparatively low ball discharge rates,
hall management still needs to secure profits by raising gross profit margins.
The entire industry has fallen into a negative spiral that lowered ball
discharge rates (=increased gross profit margins) → customer traffic slow down
→ raising gross profit margins → customer traffic slowing down further, and
cannot get out of it. To deal with that situation, the Company changed machines to try
to get customers to return. In specifics, it raised ball discharge rates by
1.3% for pachinko and 0.7% for pachislot to increase customer return. We
estimate the impact that the customer return increase will have on the
Company’s operational profit is about ¥3,000mn.(3) Effect The effect of the drastic efforts the Company made to cope with
a decline in customer traffic was noticeable. Pachinko machine utilization rate
(number of balls shot per day per machine) as an index of a hall’s operational
situation, which had been lagging with around 21,000 shots in Q3 FY3/15,
returned to the highest quarterly level beyond 23,000 shots in Q4 FY3/15. It is
considered to be largely due to the raised ball discharge rates, but it seems
that clear recovery of customer traffic was recognized at almost all individual
halls out of the 40 renewed halls.The Company intends to
continue the same types of measures in FY3/16 with the recognition of the
effect of customer traffic recovery by hall renewal and customer return
increase. Specifically, it renewed about 50 halls in April to May 2015 and
intends to continue renewal work in June onward. (4)
Competitive advantage over other companies Measures
the Company implemented have been verified to have had a positive effect.
However, these measures have not had an impact strong enough to increase the
number of pachinko players, so in the event of competitors following the
Company and implementing the same measures, the point will be whether the
Company has a competitive advantage over its competitors. Starting
from the conclusion, FISCO is of the opinion that although there may be a less
competitive advantage over some financially stable competitors’ halls, the
Company will maintain its competitive advantage over middle and small
competitors that account for the majority of the industry. The
reason for such a conclusion lies in the difference in corporate financial
strength. The Company’s increase in customer return had a large adverse impact
on its operational profit. The Company had room to conduct such a measure, but
it is estimated that there’s no such room for most of small and middle-sized
halls. In addition, it is thought that the Company group’s renewal
expenses per hall are largely reduced compared with its competitors. The reason
for that is the Company had promoted hall standardization while it pursued
management based on the theory of chain-store operations. Since the Company had
standardized the design and specifications for its halls, it could order
renewal works for a number of halls in bulk and enjoy a scale merit
accordingly. Whereas the Company could plan and carry out its hall renewal
based on renewal expenses reduced by economy of scale, it is thought that in
many cases some of the small and middle-sized halls have to give up the idea of
conducting renewals in view of the cost-benefit performance. Furthermore, we
believe there are only limited companies that could simultaneously implement
the two measures of a customer return increase and hall renewal.Policy to change pachinko to “time-consumptive leisure” Challenges for the Dynam Group
At
a time when the entire industry is in a predicament, the Company is seeking to
outdistance its rivals at a stretch by utilizing its size as having the
industry’s largest hall count and financial strength, as well as knowhow
regarding low-cost operations based on chain-store operation theory. However,
in FISCO’s opinion, there remain issues for the Company group to solve. One is
the issue of new hall openings and another is the issue of its low playing cost
machine strategy. We do not have answers to those problems. However, having
those problems will affect the Company’s medium- and long-term growth
strategies, and we believe that if the Company group can solve those problems,
it will have a greater chance of achieving sustainable growth. (1)
Challenges for a new strategy for hall opening are expected Declines in the pachinko playing population and visitors to
pachinko halls are affecting the Company’s new hall openings. Regarding new hall
openings, the Company has appropriately managed opening expenses and investment
recovery by using its standard model. This has been carried out as a part of
the chain-store management and the standard model has functioned well. However,
starting around FY3/14, the Company started to often see newly opened halls end
up falling short of the first year income level planned under the standard
model, and in FY3/15 such a tendency seems to have further intensified.The Company group’s standard
model for hall openings is well developed and thus enables hall openings at
lower costs compared to competitors. This competitive advantage remains
unchanged. However, the issue is customer traffic after the opening has fallen
below the forecast in the Company’s investment recovery model. For such halls,
a renewal strategy cannot be applied. The measure of increasing customer return
has a certain limitation in applying because newly opened halls are halls with
low playing cost machines that have low operational profit ratios. In our opinion, if the
situation of market share grabbing continues in the total market whose size
will not increase, the Company needs to either change its hall opening and
investment recovery model based on that situation, or review its hall opening
strategy to include a decision on whether to discontinue new hall openings. We
think that the Company has financial strength and knowhow to address such
fundamental issues and we expect the Company will take appropriate actions down
the road. (2)
Reviewing the composition of halls with high playing cost machines and halls
with low playing cost machines The Company operates two types of halls, namely, halls with high
playing cost machines and halls with low playing cost machines, but from 2006
onward, it has been focusing on developing halls with low playing cost
machines. Its newly opened halls have basically been with low playing cost
machines. The Company has proactively promoted a shift from high playing cost
machine halls to low playing cost machine halls. As of the end of March 2015,
of the total 393 halls, 172 were high playing cost machine halls and 221 were
low playing cost machine halls.The background of the intensified shift to low playing cost
machine halls includes the Company’s future direction matching the governmental
future direction of the industry in terms of transforming pachinko to becoming
a “time-consumptive leisure.” Another factor for the shift to low playing cost
machine halls was the Company’s strategy to grab customers from competitors’
high playing cost machine halls in competing territories. Low playing cost
machine halls have lower hall operating profit, but the Company is confident
about its low-cost operations.However, if we compare the two types of halls in terms of cost
structure, halls with low playing cost machines have lower profitability
structurally than halls with high playing cost machines. Although the Company
has adopted a strategy to increase customers and secure profit by a low margin,
high turnover strategy riding on the strength of the group’s low-cost
operations, our concern is that the recent decline in pachinko customers may be
at a level about to press for reconsideration of the Company group’s strategy.
We would think that it is hard for the Company to shift to halls with high
playing cost machines all at once, but the Company group has introduced low
playing cost machines at all of its 393 halls. Namely, the difference between a
high playing cost machine hall and a low playing cost machine hall lies in the
difference in the balance between both types of machines. If such understanding
is correct, FISCO considers that there is much room for improving profit
margins for each hall by way of flexibly changing the composition of types of
machines.(3) Development of new
pachinko fans Creating
new pachinko fans is important for the fundamental solution. Pachinko operating
companies including the Company group are making efforts to create pachinko
fans more or less, but actually, there is no sign of the pachinko population
decline having touched the bottom. Popularization of smartphones is considered
as the reason for the pachinko population decline. While customer needs are
shifting from prize winning as the main purpose to time-consumptive leisure to
enjoy playing time itself, placing smartphones and pachinko as opposed to each
other. However, we wonder how much of an attempt has been made to use
smartphones to attract people to pachinko. For example, 020 marketing is attracting attention. When someone
approaches a pachinko hall, their smartphone could receive information from the
hall, such as a promotion ball discharge, campaign or discount coupon
information, which we imagine would be effective to a certain degree in
acquiring customers. Although the Company group may be attempting similar
ideas, we encourage further efforts including fresh methods toward the creation
of new pachinko fans that will be the most fundamental measure.◆Business results trends Drastic measures were forced through to end a negative
spiral (1) Details of FY3/15 results FY3/15
closed with decreases in both sales and profit as operating revenue was
¥154,556mn (down 6.8% YoY), operating profit ¥19,344mn (down 39.0% YoY), profit
before income taxes ¥19,518mn (down 43.6% YoY) and net profit ¥11,259mn (down
47.0% YoY). Looking at the transition of operating profit margin (ratio of
operating profit to operating revenue) for every six months, you will see the ratios
were at the same levels as for the previous years until H1 FY3/15. However, in
the background, the number of customers had been decreasing and halls’ gross
profit margins (ratio of operating revenue to ball rental fee income) rising,
which caused greater customer defection. To cut off the negative spiral, the
Company implemented drastic measures in Q4 FY3/15. The effect showed up in the
form of a sharp decline in operating profit ratio in H2 FY3/15.As mentioned above, in the background of the decreases in both
sales and profit lies the fact that the Company took measures to renew halls
and increase customer return. Besides these factors, the consumption tax rate
increase and newly opened halls had additional impacts on profits, and
operating profit decreased by ¥12,391mn YoY.Since profit before income taxes in FY3/15 was ¥19,518mn (¥34,614mn
in previous FY), net cash flow provided by operations was ¥13,416mn (compared
with net cash of ¥27,385mn provided by operations in the previous FY). On the
other hand, capital investment of ¥16,008mn was made for 19 newly opened halls
and 40 halls renewed, whereas the cost for acquiring a subsidiary posted in the
previous FY reduced to zero (¥2,372mn in the previous FY) and spending
decreased for acquiring available-for-sale financial assets (¥8,858mn in the
previous FY decreased to ¥818mn in the FY under review). Thus, cash flow from
investments was minus ¥17,013mn (minus ¥22,390mn in previous FY). Cash flow
used in financial activities was ¥2,898mn (compared with cash flow used in
financial activities of ¥13,102mn in the previous FY) with net revenue of ¥8,382mn
as a bank loan and spending of ¥10,400mn for dividends. As a result, net cash
flow decreased by ¥5,597mn and cash and cash equivalents at the end of FY was ¥29,239mn
down by ¥5,597mn YoY.(2) Analysis of business
forecasts in FY3/16 The
Company has not announced its business forecasts. FISCO thinks that the
following estimates can be made with regard to the company’s financial
performance in FY3/16. With
regard to operating revenue, with the Company’s renewal investment and customer
return increase in FY3/15, customers have been on the recovery track and the
pachinko machine utilization rate is at a higher level than it was in Q1 and Q2
FY3/15. The impact of the customer return increase in Q4 FY3/15 on the
Company’s profit was estimated to be about ¥3,000mn, and such impact will be
effective through the year. On the other hand, an increase in operating revenue
can be expected by an income increase through customers returning, a customer
increase at high playing cost machine halls and improving the mix of types of
machines. The Company is implementing renewal on about 50 halls in Q1 FY3/16
(80 halls are planned within the FY) and we believe the reproducibility of the
effect is high. All these matters being considered, it can be estimated that
operating revenue will not reach the level of FY3/14 but it will exceed the
level of FY3/15 settling in the range of ¥160,000mn to ¥165,000mn. Therefore,
compared with FY3/15, operating revenue will increase by ¥9,000mn to ¥10,000mn
while operational expenses will increase by ¥5,000mn to ¥6,000mn due to
renewals and other factors. Thus, we estimate that operating profit will
increase by ¥3,000mn to ¥5,000mn YoY. Supposing that operating profit is ¥24,000mn, net profit for the
current period will be ¥15,600mn on the basis of profit before income taxes
being the same as operating profit and effective corporate tax rate of 35%.
Depreciation cost will be about ¥11,000mn as it is estimated to increase by
about ¥600mn YoY. Thus, cash inflow will be estimated to be ¥26,600mn. On the
other hand, capital investments will be estimated to be ¥17,000mn up by about
¥1,000mn YoY on the basis of 80 halls for renewal (40 halls in the previous FY)
and 20 newly opened halls (19 halls in the previous FY). Dividends to be paid
will be ¥10,400mn (the yearly dividend is estimated at ¥14 per share, the same
as for the previous FY). Thus, cash outflow will be ¥27,400mn (capital
investments + dividends) and net cash flow can be estimated to be minus ¥800mn.◆Return to Shareholders Highly conscious of the importance of return to
shareholders The
Company is highly conscious of the importance of returns to shareholders and it
has a basic policy to make its dividend at 35% or more as a target rate. The
Company has already announced ¥7 per share as its year-end dividend for FY3/15.
As a result, its yearly dividend will be ¥14 per share, the same as for FY3/14,
which will make a dividend payout ratio of 92.1%. As mentioned already in this report, the Company’s net cash flow
used was ¥5,597mn as a result of decreased profit and maintenance of the
dividend level. The Company holds a growth strategy with aggressive new hall
openings and doing so makes it the most important principle in terms of finance
to cover cash out-flow for opening halls with cash in-flow by the total of net
profit for the current period and depreciation cost. This time, the Company has
maintained the dividend level departing from the above principle, which can be
understood to mean the Company’s stance of giving much weight to return to
shareholders for one thing, and, for another important point of view, we
consider that it means that the Company is confident of its business recovery
in FY3/16. 報告內容僅供參考，不得作為任何投資引用之唯一依據，且其投資風險及決定應由投資人自行判斷並自負損益。