T-GaiaCorporation(JP-3738)TokyoStockExchangeFirstSectionOfftoaGoodStartinQ1FY3/16,BoostingEarningsinAllSegments
  2015-09-02 提供機構：FISCO 作者：FISCO 點閱次數：5   

T-Gaia
(3738) is Japan’s leading primary mobile phone distributor, with a market share
of approximately 12% for domestic mobile phone sales. The company had 2,186
sales bases as of June 30, 2015, including agents’ shops operated by its
secondary distributors. Other businesses T-Gaia runs include a solutions
business for corporate clients and a prepaid settlement service business
involving electronic money. The
company recently announced its consolidated financial results for Q1 FY3/16
(April to June 2015). Net sales increased 7.1% year on year to ¥135,936mn, and
operating income increased 21.0% to ¥3,062mn. Unit sales of mobile phones and
other devices were up 2.0% to 1.03 million, a solid result that reflected
expanded tablet demand. Sales of accessories and other merchandise related to
smart devices remained strong, climbing around 40%. Earnings of the Mobile
Telecommunications Business were up. This was mainly because smartphones,
tablets, and other smart devices accounted for a higher proportion of sales,
while ongoing structural reforms to improve productivity at mobile phone shops
proved fruitful. Earnings were also higher in the Solutions Business as well as
Settlement Service and Other Business segments, rounding out a good start to
the year. For
FY3/16, T-Gaia looks to achieve growth in both revenues and earnings, with net
sales to increase 2.0% to ¥655,000mn and operating income rising 4.8% to
¥15,000mn. The company anticipates a 3.5% increase in unit sales of mobile
phones and expects to maintain favorable sales of accessories and other related
products. Management expects to post lower Mobile Telecommunications Business
earnings owing to reinforced investments in mobile phone shops and human
resources to drive future growth and enhance customer satisfaction. Management
forecasts higher earnings for the Solutions Business for corporate clients and
the Settlement Services Business and Other Business, however, boosting overall
profits. T-Gaia has announced a policy of returning profits to
shareholders based on a dividend payout ratio target of 30% or more.
Accordingly, for FY3/16 the company plans to increase its dividend for two
consecutive years to ¥41.0 per share, up ¥3.5 year on year (for a payout ratio
of 31.3%).◆Business Overview Mobile Phone Sales and Agency Operations Driving Mobile
Telecommunications Business T-Gaia has three business segments. The first is the Mobile
Telecommunications Business, which mainly conducts sales of mobile phones and
other related products to consumers, along with agency operations. The second
is the Solutions Business, which serves corporate customers through the sale of
mobile phones and other related products, the provision of solutions services,
and contract agency operations for optical fiber and other fixed-line services.
The third is the Settlement Services and Other Business, covering the sale of
electronic-money based merchandise, comprising online payment methods such as
PINs and gift cards, as well as overseas business. The graph below shows that
the Mobile Telecommunications Business accounts for 80.2% of net sales and
61.5% of operating income, making it the company’s core business.The core Mobile Telecommunications Business had 2,186 sales
bases at the end of June 2015. This network included 1,241 carrier shops (of
which eight were in China) and 276 directly managed shops. The number of home
appliances stores and GMS’s and shops dealing multi-carrier brands has trended
downward in recent years amid intensifying market competition and industry
consolidation moves. Carrier shops have engaged in store roll-out strategies
that focus on enhancing customer satisfaction and operational efficiencies,
with stores gradually becoming larger.◆Financial Results Trends Higher Revenue and Earnings in Q1 FY3/16 (1) Q1 FY3/16 Results In Q1 FY3/16, consolidated net sales increased 7.1% year on year
to ¥135,936mn. Operating income rose 21.0% to ¥3,062mn, ordinary income gained
21.9% to ¥3,084mn, and net income attributable to owners of the parent climbed
38.5% to ¥1,838mn. Operating income in the mainstay Mobile Telecommunications
Business increased 8.0% year on year. The other two segments, the Solutions
Business and the Settlement Services Business and Other Business, also boosted operating
income, underscoring a solid start to the year.○Mobile Telecommunications Business Net
sales of this core segment rose 10.2% to ¥108,941mn, while operating income
advanced 8.1% to ¥1,884mn. Sales of mobile phones increased 1.0% to 980,000 units,
with the proportion of smart devices such as smartphones and tablets, growing.
Sales of accessories and other related merchandise remained strong, climbing
around 40% on a year-on-year basis, driving revenue growth. Tablet
sales have exceeded the industry average, stemming from a program, centered on
carrier shops, that the company deployed more than a year ago to enhance
selling skills. At directly managed shops, for example, tablets apparently
accounted for more than 20% of sales in Q1 FY3/16, up from around 15% a year
earlier. In accessories, the company has enjoyed particularly strong sales of
smartphone cases, intensified protection films, and average spending per
customer in shops continues to rise as functions of accessories become more
advanced and more luxury offerings are available. Increased
revenues from tablets and related merchandise boosted earnings, while enhanced
productivity from operational efficiencies at mobile phone shops and other
structural reforms also contributed to profit gains. ○Solutions
Business Segment
net sales increased 14.9% year on year to ¥7,777mn, while operating income rose
23.7% to ¥868mn. Demand for fixed-line merchandise was firm, while smart
devices for corporate customers rose as a proportion of sales. The number of
subscribers for movino star, the company’s application service provider
service, rose from 375,000 at the end of June 2014 to 401,000. Demand was also
solid for T-GAIA Smart SUPPORT total solution package services, which
accommodate diverse needs for mobile phones and other devices. ○Settlement
Services and Other Business Net
sales in this segment declined 9.8% year on year to ¥19,216mn. Operating income
was up 264.0% to ¥309mn. The decline in net sales was mainly caused by a shift
in demand from PIN merchandise, where the face value amount of all transactions
is recorded as net sales, to gift cards, where only the received commission is
recorded as net sales. In line with this shift, net income has decreased but
sales of gift cards are increasing. Strong gift card sales in the Settlement Services Business
contributed to higher earnings, as did the improved profitability of overseas
operations. The Chinese mobile phone sales business runs eight China Unicom
shops in Shanghai, successfully reinforcing existing shops to increase the number
of profitable ones. Settlement services operations in Singapore have continued
to perform steadily.Looking to Increase Full-Year Revenues and Earnings on
Higher Sales of Tablets and Related Products (2) Financial forecasts for
FY3/16 For
FY3/16, T-Gaia aims to increase net sales 2.0% to ¥655,000mn, with operating
income gaining 4.8% to ¥15,000mn, ordinary income climbing 5.0% to ¥14,900mn,
and net income attributable to owners of the parent advancing 16.2% to
¥9,000mn. Management seeks to boost companywide mobile phone unit sales 3.5% to
5.3 million units, increasing sales of tablets and related products while
benefiting from companywide restructuring efforts. The
MM Research Institute, Ltd., forecasts that unit shipments in Japan’s overall
mobile phone market will expand 0.6% this year to 38.1mn units. T-Gaia will
draw on Career Design Academy Co., Ltd., to extend its internal education and
training program to its secondary distributors and other entities. At the same
time, it will push ahead in elevating highly talented contract workers to
regular employee status while reinforcing its sales capabilities in mobile
phones, tablets, and other devices and endeavoring to boost unit sales. T-Gaia
will invest in human resources to enhance the operational quality of shop
staff. It also aims to increase customer satisfaction and attract more
customers by investing extensively in shops through relocations and major
renovations. T-Gaia
also plans to aggressively roll out shops. They include Smart Labo smartphone
accessory shops, whose sales have remained favorable. The company looks to
augment the 13 directly managed accessory shops (including one on an e-commerce
site) as of the end of June this year by deploying franchise ones, lifting the
number of accessory shops to 40 as soon as possible. The company opened one
shop each in Osaka and Kobe in July. The Namba Ebisubashi shop in Osaka sells
cases and accessories on the ground and second floors, and has an acoustics
section on the third floor where visitors can watch videos and listen to music.
There is also a SIM card-free device section, which it plans to open in late
August, which will be the first in the Smart Labo network to have such a
section. Another
new sales approach was T-Gaia’s rollouts of Smart Labo Wagons in July within
outlet malls in Gotemba, Shizuoka Prefecture, and in Rinku Town in Osaka.
Deploying such wagons in the streets of large shopping malls incurs low
investments, making it possible to engage in test marketing and other
initiatives, so the company plans to deploy more of these wagons in various
other mall formats. T-Gaia
plans to greatly increase its shop-related investments this fiscal year to
deploy such new accessory shops as well as mobile phone shops. By
business segment, the Mobile Telecommunications Business expects an increase of
around 3.1% in net sales and a 3.7% decrease in operating income. The key
factors in such results would be expanded investments in human resources and
shops. That said, we believe that actual results may exceed these forecasts
when sales remain favorable for tablets and related products and in case
restructuring efforts bear fruit beyond Q2. The
forecasts for the Solutions Business are for an increase of 3.0% in net sales
and a 14.4% rise in operating income. In mobile solution services, T-Gaia looks
to boost the number of corporate clients by steadily expanding support services
while enhancing convenience through movino star, which it plans to upgrade in
fall. Specific changes will include not only enhancing telecommunications line
management but also adding new features to enable management of such areas as
customers’ intangible assets and applications. The forecasts for the Settlement Services and Other Business are
for a 5.1% decrease in net sales and a 113.2% rise in operating income. As
mentioned before, net sales would decline amid an ongoing shift from PIN
products, where the face value amount is recorded as net sales, to gift cards,
where only the received commission is recorded as those. In light of such
factors as sales channel expansion and new product development, however, we
predict more than 20% growth year on year in transactions. We also anticipate
an ongoing improvement in earnings of the mobile phone sales business in China.Career Design Academy (in which T-Gaia has an 80% equity stake)
was established in April 2015 as a joint venture with J-COM Holdings Co., Ltd.
Although Career Design Academy will focus for the foreseeable future on
providing education and training to enhance overall sales skills for the T-Gaia
group, it has begun receiving inquiries from other industries. That firm will
probably increase opportunities to supply high-quality training and educational
services to a wide range of retail businesses beyond the mobile phone sales
sphere.◆Shareholder Returns
Policy Planning to Increase Dividends for a Second Straight Year
The company’s shareholder returns policy is mainly to return
profits to shareholders through dividends. Regarding the level of dividends,
the company’s policy is to decide the level by aiming for a dividend payout
ratio of over 30%, while retaining internal reserves needed for future business
development and to strengthen the management base. For FY3/16, the company
plans to lift the annual dividend by ¥3.5 per share to ¥41.0 (dividend payout
ratio of 31.3%), representing a second straight rise. The dividend could
increase further if earnings exceed management’s target to maintain a payout
ratio of over 30%. 報告內容僅供參考，不得作為任何投資引用之唯一依據，且其投資風險及決定應由投資人自行判斷並自負損益。