PIPEDBITSCo.,Ltd.(JP-3831)TokyoStockExchangeFirstSectionFulfillingtheNewMid-termManagementPlanbyDeliveringSolutionstoCustomers,RegionsandSocietyasaWhole(I)
  2015-06-02 提供機構：FISCO 作者：FISCO 點閱次數：3   

PIPED BITS (3831) is a unique
IT company that provides its proprietary product SPIRAL® (middleware) in cloud format. Not only does it provide this
platform to mid- and large tier corporations, but also undertakes the sale of
applications it develops itself aimed at specific industries (such as the
beauty salon and construction industries). In FY2/15, it showed
significant year-on-year gains in both sales and earnings, but fell slightly
below its initial plan targets. Sales were ¥3,173mn, (+26.1% YoY), operating profit was ¥625mn (+10.7% YoY), recurring profit was ¥634mn (+12.2% YoY) and net profit was ¥372mn (+8.7% YoY). In FY2/16, which is already underway, the
Company expects to achieve record-high results for the second straight year. It
is forecasting sales of ¥4,000mn (+26.0% YoY),
operating profit of ¥820mn (+31.2% YoY), recurring
profit of ¥820mn (+29.2% YoY) and net profit of ¥490mn (+31.6% YoY). Further, the Company has
embarked on a new Mid-term Management Plan, having its final year in FY2/17,
with the ultimate goals of ¥9,200mn in sales
(approximately 3.7 times compared with FY2/14) and operating profit of ¥2,800mn (5.0 times compared with FY2/14). Guided by the slogan “the
3-year revolution toward being a next generation IT vendor,” PIPED BITS plans to expand its business based on three
strategies: provide solutions to clients, b) provide solutions to regions and
industries and c) provide solutions to society. The plan’s final targets are arguably very lofty compared with forecasts
for FY2/16. However, we believe that PIPED BITS will be able to attain these
targets provided that the Company takes full advantage of the cloud format
business model where its core business domain lies. Trends such as the number
of active accounts will also need to be watched closely, along conditions
surrounding the introduction of the “My
Number” National ID system.◆Corporate Outline Expanding business around
SPIRAL®, a proprietary platform developed
in-house (1) Corporate history PIPED BITS, hereafter “PB” or “the Company,” was established by its Founder and current President, Nobuaki
Satani, in April 2000. For most companies, data acquired in the course of
business including customer attributes and e-mail addresses form important “Information Assets”, so PB commenced operations
with services to effectively use them at the same time as managing them
securely. What was developed in-house in order to carry out this business was
the proprietary SPIRAL® platform for data management.
(Details to follow). Subsequently, PB developed a range of applications based
around SPIRAL®, and has been engaged up to the present
in rolling-out these business applications.Help to manage information
assets and cut costs, a priority for virtually all companies (2) Description of business (Product Outline) In a word, PB’s flagship business is its proprietary
platform SPIRAL®, and the provision to users of related
applications, not by way of outright sales but rather in a rental format (a
monthly fee method). Within the layers of software, SPIRAL®’s position may be referred to as a cloud format middleware.Generally, the majority of
companies, when developing operational and other systems, need to purchase the
hardware required to develop and run the system, the operating system (OS),
development environment (tools), database(s), middleware and other elements
themselves (or outsource development), and develop, by combining them, the base
(platform) in order to run the system. Additionally, they must also bear the
burden (cost) of maintaining it post-development. However, with SPIRAL® developed by PB, because the development tools are embedded,
not only can a range of applications be easily developed, given that it also
has a database built-in, it enables the use and sharing in each application of
customer and other data stored in SPIRAL®. Further, these applications and data classes may be easily
reproduced and delivered. This provides a significant advantage over package
software. As a result, corporate
customers may easily and holistically operate with (use) and manage data, and
at the same time greatly reduce application development costs by using SPIRAL®. Additionally, given that it is a pay-for-use monthly fee
format platform, it further helps in cost reduction. Starting with major
financial institutions, the names of companies that have introduced SPIRAL® include many preeminent corporations. Recently in the IT industry, the majority of services are
provided in a cloud format, with them being described in a variety of ways
depending on the content of the particular cloud format service.. PB’s SPIRAL® belongs to the area called
PaaS (Platform as a Service).(Description and Pricing of
Major Products) As noted above, PB’s flagship product SPIRAL® is a platform environment. Accordingly, the main customers
using it are medium and small tier system integrators (SIs) that undertake
development aimed at large tier companies and main street SMEs that internally
develop in-house operating and other software. By using SPIRAL®, PB is able to internally develop applications aimed at
specific industries and users, and then also sell these applications. These
types of core products are not sold as a package, but are sold entirely in a
cloud-based monthly fee format. Below are the major products and their monthly
pricing (minimum fees). It goes without saying that in
PB’s business model, increases in active
accounts (fee-based) is linked to sales growth. However, the fees mentioned
below are only basic or minimum fees and the actual fees change depending on
data volumes (pay-for-use). Therefore, sales do not simply equal the number of
accounts multiplied by the basic fee. But in order to view sales trends, the
number of active accounts is an important indicator. SPIRAL®：PB’s flagship product. The core
platform including installed database(s), development environment, and
execution environment. From ¥25,000/month. SPIRAL PLACE®：Cloud format groupware possessing website creation and updating
functions, and at the same time linked to SNS. As groupware, it allows web
content enhancement and updating as well as traffic analysis via simple
(manual) operations while sharing calendars and files, being also linked to
Facebook and Twitter. It is highly regarded by retail chain stores and others
that employ large numbers of staff. Basic fees are from ¥6,000/month. SPIRAL EC®：An e-commerce (EC) platform focused on apparel. While pursuing a
sophisticated brand image for EC sites aimed at apparel, it is highly regarded
by the industry for resolving a number of issues, such as simplifying update
procedures and also containing this within a low budget. Usage fees are
pay-for-use with a maximum fee of 5% of the distribution amount. Net de Kaikei and Net de
Aoiroshinkoku：A cloud format accounting service targeting small-and mid-tier
companies and sole proprietors. It is building up a brand in clerical accounts
administration for small- and mid-tier businesses. Its operations were acquired
and sales launched in September 2011. SPIRAL Affiliate：A holistic
ASP affiliate management service that reduces the issues and costs associated with
introducing and operating affiliate marketing for advertisers. It contains a
number of special features, such as free upfront costs for SPIRAL® users only. Other：As noted below, there are also applications aimed at
specialist fields and industry sectors. Pricing is from one hundred to several
thousand yen per month.(Operating Segments) Based on major products such as those noted above, PB’s operating segments are classified as set out below.Building a competitive edge
through links with various applications plus maintenance and monitoring
functions (3) Special Characteristics
and Strengths (Ease of system construction) SPIRAL®’s greatest distinguishing
feature is its ability to be freely customized. As explained above, PB itself
combines SPIRAL®’s functions, and develops applications
for its own operational systems and specific customers (areas), and, excluding
areas such as financial institutions which require extremely high reliability,
it is not an exaggeration to say that every operational system in the world at
large may be created by combining SPIRAL®’s functions. These types of operational systems were generally
developed by operators known as system integrators (SIers). However, it is
possible to replace the majority of the work traditionally done by SIers
through a combination of SPIRAL® functions, with corporate
customers being enabled to easily undertake a range of development and system
creation themselves.(Every type of application can
be linked) SPIRAL® possesses a broad range of functions. However, the most basic
function is that it enables, for example, a corporate customer managing
databases over the Internet to easily engage in tasks from database creation to
those such as data manipulation, batch data registration and downloading for
registration, updating and deletion. Specifically, in cases such as those where
companies undertake online surveys, market research or new product evaluations,
on the company side, using SPIRAL® they may very easily create a
survey, deliver it to targeted and prospective customers, have them complete
the survey, and then collect them. If a customer satisfaction questionnaire is
linked to the customer database, it becomes possible to analyze them according
to customer attributes, and follow-up in order to enhance satisfaction levels.
Survey results may be aggregated in real time, and compiled into a report. Via
SPIRAL®, this series of actions between
different applications may all be easily undertaken with simple (manual)
operations. In the same way, in relation
to creating forms, such as for gift promotions/affinity marketing campaigns,
recruitment application forms, questionnaire forms, seminar applications,
account openings, and information requests, it is possible via SPIRAL® to expeditiously undertake actions such as form creation; the
recording, updating, and deletion of member attributes; and login verification.
For example, in a case such as holding seminars, even if hypothetically
multiple seminars are proceeding simultaneously, the taking of multiple
applications and management of cancellations is able to occur instantaneously,
making the holding of the seminar efficient. It is also easy to develop this
data in a search form tabulating it, having a yes or no Q&A questionnaire,
or (creating) a summary chart or graph. Also, given the addition of services
from AsBase Inc., a subsidiary that possesses audio (telephone) solutions as
noted below, and an alliance with Sprinklr Japan KK, which has strengths in
social media management platforms, it is expected that customer convenience
will be enhanced further. One of PB’s competitors is salesforce.com, Inc. of the United States, but
this company has grown through repeated acquisitions of other companies.
Therefore, because its various applications were developed by the different
companies it acquired, each application was not created on the same platform.
Consequently, when a client needs to link multiple applications, in many cases
this requires additional development costs and time. On this point, PB’s SPIRAL® is considerably superior to
salesforce.com’s product, as its applications are on the
same platform and as a result, each of the applications can be easily
(inexpensively and quickly) linked. (Superiority in installation
costs and security) Further, because SPIRAL® is not sold as package software, but provided as a
pay-as-you-go cloud service, a distinctive feature is that client companies may
themselves build requisite systems rapidly and at low cost, without incurring
unnecessary time and expense. That is, even in the initial period when the
system is installed, the system can be developed from just a small investment
without incurring major costs. In addition to its superiority in terms of costs, PB also
provides guarantees, maintenance, and monitoring functions on the security
front, which is extremely convenient, particularly for medium- and small-tier
SIers. For example, in the event that a vulnerability is identified in the SSL
(Security Sockets Layer), which is the most widely used communication
cryptographic technology on the Internet, normally it is necessary for each
SIer to individually deal with this vulnerability for each system. But if
SPIRAL® is used, PB is able to take all
necessary actions and the issue is resolved on SPIRAL®, eliminating the need for the SIers to deal with it
individually. On the other hand, in terms of security the use of SPIRAL® can also be said to give a sense of security to the final
client.(Installation case studies) One example of a successful installation of PB’s SPIRAL® was the case of Asahi Fire
and Marine Insurance Co., Ltd. The company introduced SPIRAL® as a customer service system. By linking client attributes with
various types of data, the number of requests for information materials
increased by 130 times, and the work time needed from receiving to answering a
customer request was reduced from the usual time of around 30 minutes to just
two or three minutes. Moreover, when introducing the system, PB competed with
other SIers to win the account. PB’s
quote was about 1/10th the cost of its competitors. Although every case is
different, this example clearly demonstrates the competitive advantages of
SPIRAL®. 報告內容僅供參考，不得作為任何投資引用之唯一依據，且其投資風險及決定應由投資人自行判斷並自負損益。