Hottolink,Inc.(JP-3680)TSEMothersHighergrowthpotentialdrivenbytheSocialgistacquisition
  2015-04-24 提供機構：FISCO 作者：FISCO 點閱次數：13   

Hottolink (3680) is developing
a core cloud-service business that provides useful information to business
managers by gathering and analyzing data posted on Twitter, blogs and other
social media. In January 2015, Hottolink acquired Effyis.inc., a U.S.-based
social media data provider, for US$22mn (approximately \2,596mn) (service brand
name: Socialgist, hereafter “Socialgist”). In FY12/15, Hottolink is
projecting large increases in sales and earnings due to the conversion of
Socialgist into a subsidiary. The Company is forecasting net sales of \2,423mn,
up 135.7% year on year (“yoy”), and operating income of \208mn, up 41.9% yoy. Socialgist’s business results are expected to account for about half of
Hottolink’s overall business performance in
FY12/15. Socialgist is the world’s only company to acquire a
marketing license with full access rights to the data of Sina Weibo, which is
the Chinese version of Twitter. Socialgist has continued to deliver
double-digit annual growth rate in net sales. Through this acquisition,
Hottolink has established a key position in the global market as a data
distribution player in the social media space, and the Company’s future growth potential has increased further. Although the Company will
adopt International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) from FY12/15,
Hottolink will announce its business results based on Japanese accounting
standards through the third quarter of FY12/15, and will therefore record
amortization of goodwill for this period. For this reason, it should be noted
that Hottolink’s profitability will appear to
deteriorate temporarily. Notably, Hottolink is highly likely to incur an
operating loss in the first quarter of FY12/15, due to the recording of
M&A-related expenses (just over \100mn) in addition to an increase in
amortization of goodwill (from \14mn to \90mn).* Hottolink’s existing businesses showed a slower pace of growth
in FY12/14. Hottolink believes that this reflects a period of transition as its
customer base of social media data users expands from major corporations to
middle tier companies. In FY12/15, the Company is forecasting a double-digit
annual growth rate in net sales based on a higher number of customers. The
increase in customers will be driven by upgrading and expanding the
functionality of core services such as kuchikomi@kakaricho and e-mining, and
increasing its sales personnel.◆Business overview SaaS Business represents just
over 70% of net sales (1) Description of business Hottolink has developed tools
for gathering and analyzing postings on a variety of social media, such as
Twitter, 2channel, Sina Weibo and various blogs. It provides services that put
this information to good use in corporate marketing strategies, risk management
and other functions. Looking at Hottolink’s core services, in the SaaS* Business, Hottolink offers services such
as kuchikomi@kakaricho and e-mining, for which the Company directly enters into
subscription agreements with customers. In the Solution Business, Hottolink
provides analysis tools and data to systems integrators and tool vendors, along
with consulting services to client companies. The chart below describes each
business segment.○SaaS Business The SaaS Business currently
accounts for just over 70% of Hottolink’s net sales. In the SaaS Business, Hottolink provides two
products: (1) kuchikomi@kakaricho, a social media analysis tool; and (2)
e-mining, a risk monitoring tool. The price structure for each of these
services consists of an initial registration fee of \100,000 and a monthly
usage fee starting from \130,000. The monthly usage fee is calculated based on
the number of usable IDs, the number of media subject to analysis, data
capacity and other factors. Some large corporate customers spend up to \1mn a
month to use these services. The number of corporate
subscribers is over 1,700 for the two services combined on a cumulative basis.
Of this, there are currently approximately 500 active corporate subscribers.
The industry breakdown shows corporate subscribers span a wide range of
sectors, from consumer goods manufacturers to the services and finance sectors.
Approximately 80% of the corporate users are major corporations. kuchikomi@kakaricho has the
following features. It possesses Japan’s
largest social media coverage and it is easy to operate and perform real-time
searches, such as trend analysis and attribute analysis. It also has functions
such as cross-media analysis spanning television, Web news sites and other
media, plus a data import analysis function to perform text mining of data held
internally by corporate customers (questionnaires and call logs, etc.). Notably, Hottolink has a
dominant advantage in Japan in terms of the sheer amount of social data it
possesses. For example, the Company holds all historical data on the 2channel
bulletin board site and has entered into a marketing agency agreement with
Gnip, Inc., which markets Twitter data worldwide. In addition, Hottolink covers
approximately 90% of blogs in Japan (more than 37 million bloggers). The kuchikomi@kakaricho tool
can be applied promptly to a company’s
marketing initiatives through real-time features such as trend analysis. For
this reason, kuchikomi@kakaricho is being steadily adopted primarily by major
corporations as a support tool that helps to improve return on investment (ROI)
for marketing departments. Meanwhile, e-mining is a tool
that automatically collects data from Twitter, 2channel and other sources
according to pre-set risk-related keywords. The e-mining service provides alert
functions that enable companies to promptly detect any dispersion of these
risks. Monitoring covers a wide range beyond 2channel and Twitter, extending to
blogs and various news sites. Each day, e-mining monitors approximately 12
million web pages and reports search results by category. Recently, there has been a notable increase in incidents that
have spread out via postings on social media, such as food contamination
problems. It has become crucial for corporate risk management to promptly
identify these risks and to implement response measures at an early stage.
Accordingly, e-mining is being adopted primarily by major corporations.○Solution Business The Solution Business accounts
for just over 20% of Hottolink’s net sales. In the Solution
Business, Hottolink provides two different services: (1) data platform services
that provide systems integrators and other customers with the data and analysis
engines that make up kuchikomi@kakaricho; and (2) consulting services developed
by subsidiary Hottolink Consulting Inc. Data platform services, which
represent the bulk of the Solution Business, involves supplying Hottolink’s data and analysis engines for use in the products and services
of systems integrators and tool vendors. This allows systems integrators and
other third parties to provide higher value-added services to their end
customers. The initial deployment fee is \500,000 and the monthly usage fee is
based on a tiered billing structure according to the number of requests.
Customers spend between \0.1mn and \3mn on these data platform services.
Meanwhile, the consulting business provides social media analysis reports to
advanced users. Hottolink’s strengths: world-class big data analysis technologies (2) Hottolink’s strengths Hottolink’s strengths lie in having world class big data analysis
technologies, in addition to Japan’s
largest coverage of social media data. Hottolink’s outstanding technological capabilities are highlighted by the
use of its data and analysis engines in the customer relationship management
(CRM) services provided by salesforce.com, Inc., a global cloud computing
services enterprise. Hottolink continues to internally develop next-generation
technologies in the big data field, with development personnel accounting for
approximately 41% of its employees (including temporary staff and contractors).
At the same time, Hottolink is conducting joint research and other activities
by providing data to universities including the University of Tokyo, Tokyo
Institute of Technology, and Waseda University. Another strength of the Company
is that it is able to recruit some of Japan’s best talent in the course of
undertaking these sorts of joint research activities.◆Financial results trends Delivered record results for
the second straight year atop higher sales in both of Hottolink’s core businesses (1) Outline of performance
trends for FY12/14 Consolidated financial results
for FY12/14 were announced on February 12, 2015. Net sales were \1,028mn, up
8.9% yoy, operating income was \146mn, down 7.3%, ordinary income was \163mn,
up 11.7%, and net income for the year was \74mn, up 7.2%. Although net sales fell short
of the Company’s initial forecast of \1,261mn, Hottolink
delivered record net sales for the second straight year atop higher sales in
both the core SaaS Business and the Solution Business. On the earnings front,
operating income declined mainly because of higher personnel costs (up \47mn
yoy) due to an increase in development and sales personnel. However, ordinary
income remained on a growth track, owing to the recording of foreign exchange
gains of \28mn under non-operating items. The operating margin was 14.3%, a decrease of 2.5 percentage
points yoy. Looking at cost components as a share of net sales, personnel costs
rose 0.9 percentage points, while other costs increased 1.2 of percentage
point. This indicates that higher personnel costs were the primary factor
behind the lower profit margin.In terms of quarterly performance trends, it is noteworthy that
the Company’s business results have been picking up momentum in FY12/14, with
net sales showing a double-digit increase in the fourth quarter, after
struggling to grow in the first three quarters.A strong showing by the
Solution Business, despite a slight slowdown in the SaaS Business (2) Net sales by service○SaaS Business Net sales in the SaaS Business
rose 4.2% yoy to \749mn, slightly slower than its previous double-digit growth
rate. This was mainly because the number of active corporate subscribers
increased only slightly from the previous fiscal year-end, which primarily
reflected the expiry of subscriptions and cancellations among short-term users,
despite steady growth in orders for kuchikomi@kakaricho and e-mining. Many of the short-term
corporate users whose subscriptions expired were middle-tier companies, SMEs
and other firms. The majority of these companies were trialing the service.
Most of these companies do not yet have the personnel, internal organizations
and other resources in place to effectively use Hottolink’s tools and apply these tools to their business strategies.
Consequently, quite a few of these companies seem to have terminated their
subscriptions after using the services for only a short period. That said, a
similar pattern of events unfolded when major companies began introducing these
tools in 2009 or so. Therefore, Hottolink believes that middle-tier and smaller
companies will eventually deploy the personnel and establish the internal
organizations needed to effectively use social media analysis tools. In the
process, the number of active corporate subscribers should return to a faster
pace of growth. ○Solution Business Net sales in the Solution
Business were strong, increasing 25.6% yoy to \272mn. Looking at the
components, data platform services posted brisk net sales, driven partly by the
benefits of increasing sales personnel in step with the ongoing expansion of
application fields for social media data and the “socialization” of enterprise software in
various fields. Meanwhile, the consulting business also saw steady growth in
net sales on the back of a stronger need for social media analysis primarily
among major corporations. However, sales in both of these businesses fell short
of the Company’s initial forecasts as changes in market
conditions were more gradual than initially anticipated by the Company. Significantly higher net
sales and earnings projected in FY12/15 (3) Financial forecasts for
FY12/15 In terms of consolidated
financial forecasts for FY12/15, Hottolink is projecting significant increases
in both net sales and earnings. Net sales are projected at \2,423mn, up 135.7%
yoy. Operating income is forecast at \208mn, up 41.9%, and net income for the
year is forecast at \106mn, up 42.8%. The largest contributor to the Company’s business results will be Socialgist, which was converted into
a wholly owned subsidiary following an investment of US$22mn (approx. \2,596mn)
in January 2015. Although Socialgist has not disclosed its financial forecasts,
we believe that Socialgist will account for around half of Hottolink’s consolidated business results. The projected growth rate for operating income is small compared
with that of net sales. This is attributable to anticipated M&A-related
expenses (just over \100mn) and higher personnel costs. The number of employees
is projected to reach 104 as of December 31, 2015, comprising 37 Socialgist
employees and new staff (+7 employees) following an increase in sales and
development personnel.○Socialgist Established in 2000 as a
U.S.-based startup, Socialgist collects and provides social media data from
sources such as blogs, bulletin boards, Q&A and review sites worldwide.
Besides its advanced technological capabilities in the data streaming field,
Socialgist is notable for being the world’s only company to acquire a marketing license with full access
rights to the data of Sina Weibo, which has been dubbed the “Chinese Twitter” (China’s largest social networking service (SNS) with over 600 million
accounts and 120 million posts a day). Sina Weibo data sales currently
represent just over 30% of Socialgist’s
net sales. Socialgist does business with
customers that include the world’s major social big data
monitoring firms and marketing platforms, as well as CRM, business intelligence
(BI) and other tool vendors, along with financial institutions and governments.
In June 2014, Hottolink entered into a business alliance with Socialgist and
acquired marketing agent rights to Sina Weibo data in the Asia-Pacific region
outside China. Looking at Socialgist’s latest business performance, net sales have continued to show
a strong double-digit annual growth rate in step with expansion in the social
media market. Incidentally, although Socialgist has not disclosed its financial
results for FY12/14, we believe that its net sales rose to around US$9mn, while
its operating profitability tumbled into the red. However, excluding special
factors, operating profitability was positive. The main factors behind this
performance were measures accompanying the conversion of Socialgist into a
subsidiary, namely the recording of an allowance for doubtful accounts, as well
as the strategic disposal of negative items from the company’s books through to the end of the previous fiscal year. Goodwill of around \3,000mn on the Socialgist acquisition
exceeds the acquisition cost of approximately \2,596mn, and Socialgist’s net
assets stood at negative \893mn as of December 31, 2013. Extrapolating back
from these figures, we can estimate that Socialgist incurred a net loss for the
year of between \200mn and \300mn in FY12/14.○Adoption of IFRS Hottolink has announced that
it will transition from Japanese accounting standards to international
accounting standards, i.e., IFRS, beginning with its consolidated financial
results for FY12/15. The biggest difference between the two accounting
standards lies in the treatment of amortization of goodwill. Under Japanese
accounting standards, companies must reflect amortization of goodwill in profit
and loss for the fiscal year. However, under IFRS, companies are not required to
book amortization of goodwill. It should also be noted that
Hottolink will only start adopting IFRS with its announcement of full-year
financial results for FY12/15. This means that its financial results through
FY12/15 Q3 will be announced based on Japanese accounting standards. Even if
the company’s net sales were to double in the first
three quarters compared with the previous year, its earnings are highly likely
to decline as amortization of goodwill pressures profits. Notably, Hottolink is
highly likely to incur an operating loss in FY12/15 Q1, partly due to
anticipated M&A-related expenses. To make the situation easier
to understand, the following is a rough outline of the trend in Hottolink’s quarterly financial results. First, let’s take a look at a simplified illustration of the Company’s full-year projections in which projected net sales and
operating income are divided evenly on a quarterly basis. In this case,
Hottolink should generate net sales of around \600mn every quarter. In terms of
operating profitability under IFRS, Hottolink will incur an operating loss of
\25mn in FY12/15 Q1 (including M&A-related expenses of \100mn), followed by
steady quarterly operating income of \75mn from FY12/15 Q2 onward. In contrast, under Japanese accounting standards, Hottolink will
record amortization of goodwill of \90mn every quarter (including amortization
of goodwill on the Socialgist acquisition of around \75mn). Therefore,
amortization of goodwill will be a factor that pushes down earnings. Accordingly,
Hottolink is highly likely to post lower profits on higher net sales through
FY12/15 Q3, compared with the same period last year. In actuality, considering
that net sales are projected to increase continuously in FY12/15, the amount of
the operating loss in FY12/15 Q1 could be slightly larger than assumed here.
Nevertheless, Hottolink is expecting higher profits on higher net sales for
FY12/15 on a full-year basis, as it will be announcing full-year financial
results based on IFRS.○Outlook for existing businesses Looking at earnings excluding amortization of goodwill and
M&A expenses, Hottolink expects a double-digit annual growth rate in net
sales and earnings in both existing businesses and the Socialgist business. In existing businesses, Hottolink launched an upgraded version
of e-mining in January 2015. Specifically, the Company dramatically enhanced
its user friendliness by, for example, enabling e-mining to support various
smart devices, so that users are able to monitor the tool from any location. In
addition, the user interface was improved by adding dashboard functions and
navigation functions, so that anybody can effectively use the tool. The
upgraded version of e-mining has earned high marks from customers, and a
similar version upgrade is planned for kuchikomi@kakaricho this spring.
Hottolink is implementing a strategy for increasing net sales in the SaaS
Business and reducing the subscription cancellation rate for customers among
middle-tier companies by enhancing the user friendliness of these tools. In the Solution Business, Hottolink expects to increase net
sales to existing corporate partners that are embedding Hottolink’s data and analysis engines into their own products and
services. Additionally, Hottolink will seek to develop new partner companies in
this business. In the social media analysis field, the market environment is
showing signs of positive tailwinds, particularly following the emergence of
food contamination problems that became a major social concern at the beginning
of the year. The key to driving faster growth in this environment lies not just
in winning more new accounts, but also in reducing the subscription
cancellation rate. ○Outlook for Socialgist’s financial results Meanwhile, Socialgist is expected to continue delivering
double-digit net sales growth atop strong sales of Sina Weibo data provision
services. The main factor behind this outlook is the growing need for social
media analysis services as market strategies and risk management in China
becoming increasingly crucial to global corporations. In regard to personnel,
Socialgist’s fixed costs will remain mostly unchanged as it only needs to
increase back office staff by one or two employees. Therefore, Socialgist is
expected to contribute positive operating income to Hottolink from the
beginning of the fiscal year in line with its projected increase in net sales.
Incidentally, Socialgist’s net sales will be included in the Solution Business.◆Growth strategy Targeting net sales of \10bn
as early as possible by driving growth worldwide Guided by the business concept
of “Big Data x Social x Cloud,” Hottolink’s strategy is to drive growth
by providing social media data and analysis engines in various market sectors.
In particular, the conversion of Socialgist into a subsidiary is highly
significant as it will enable Hottolink to capture growth in overseas markets,
as well as in Japan. The structure of the social big data distribution market can be
broadly divided into three layers: data owners, data distributors, and data
users. Of these, Hottolink and Socialgist belong to the data distributor layer.
Data distributors possess marketing licenses for social media data and fulfill
the role of bridging social media data owners (such as Twitter and 2channel)
and data users (corporate customers). Looking at trends in the global market,
the data owners have been converting these data distributors into subsidiaries
for the past one or two years. These trends can be interpreted a sign of the
increasing importance of data distribution companies in the market.In this market environment,
Hottolink believes that the Socialgist acquisition has delivered the following
three main benefits: ・ Obtained a key
position as a data distributor in the global social big data industry ・ Obtained businesses,
services, and a customer base in the global market that have the same business
volume and growth potential as Hottolink ・ Obtained
internationally minded personnel who are able to build businesses on an equal
footing with major global corporations Furthermore, Hottolink plans
to develop a sophisticated analysis service by integrating its data analysis
technologies and Socialgist’s data streaming technologies.
Meanwhile, in the Japanese market, the importance of social
media analysis has continued to increase year after year. Notably, the SNS
usage rate has increased to 60% of Japan’s population and big data related
markets are projected to grow rapidly at a pace of 37.5% per year from 2012 to
2017. Therefore, Hottolink should continue to benefit from positive tailwinds
in the Japanese market.In terms of market sectors, future growth in demand is
anticipated in all manner of sectors. These include not only consumer goods
manufacturers, but also politics, news media, finance and government. Growth in
social media analysis services appeared to temporarily slow down as 2014 ended
up as a transitional year for the penetration of these services. However, as
noted earlier, Hottolink’s strategy is to drive faster growth by expanding the
range of market sectors through the development of new services, along with
reducing the subscription cancellation rate by providing highly user-friendly
tools. In addition, Hottolink will continue to proactively execute business
alliances in the course of developing markets.Hottolink is targeting net sales of \10,000mn as early as
possible by driving this growth worldwide over the medium and long term. It
will be straightforward for Hottolink to ensure relatively steady profitability
because its core operation is the cloud services business, which is a
stock-type business that generates recurring revenues from a fixed customer
base. The Company’s only main variable expense is data purchasing costs, which
represent a small percentage of net sales, at around 10%. The largest component
of fixed expenses is personnel costs, which account for 33-35% of net sales.
With Hottolink’s workforce in Japan expected to increase by only around several
employees a year going forward, its personnel cost ratio is projected to gradually
decrease. For these reasons, Hottolink’s profitability is expected to steadily
improve in step with sales growth.◆Financial status and risk factors Projected upturn in ROE,
despite a further decrease in ROA (1) Financial status Looking at the financial
status of Hottolink as of December 31, 2014, total assets were \3,244mn, up
\1,777mn from December 31, 2013. The main factor increasing total assets was
short-term loans payable of \1,700mn for the Socialgist acquisition. Cash and
deposits increased by \1,823mn, roughly in line with the increase in short-term
loans payable. In addition, given that
Hottolink completed payment of the entire acquisition cost of Socialgist
(approx. \2,596mn) in January, Hottolink appears to have executed additional new
borrowings to raise business funds. Initially, Hottolink was planning to repay
the short-term loans payable by exercising subscription rights to shares issued
in January via a third-party allotment. However, Hottolink did not exercise
these subscription rights based on its expectations of a higher stock price in
the future (The exercise price is \1,223.). Instead, Hottolink has refinanced
the short-term loans payable by executing long-term loans payable. For this
reason, the Company no longer faces any cash flow issues. Looking at key financial
indicators, Hottolink’s stability indicators have
slightly deteriorated. Specifically, there has been a decline in the equity
ratio and a higher interest-bearing debt in step with the procurement of debt.
Although the debt level is likely to reach a short-term peak in FY12/15 Q1, we
believe that the debt level is not problematic in light of the prevailing
ultra-low interest rates. In addition, Hottolink plans to repay debt through
funds generated by growth in its financial results and the exercise of
subscription rights to shares. Looking at profitability indicators, ROA and ROE both decreased
yoy in FY12/14, mainly due to increases in total assets and net assets,
respectively. In FY12/15, ROA is likely to decrease further, mainly because of
a projected increase of more than \2,000mn in total assets due to the
conversion of Socialgist into a subsidiary. Meanwhile, an upturn in ROE is
projected, mainly based on an increase in earnings, along with the fact that
Socialgist has accumulated losses (a factor that will reduce net assets).
Furthermore, the operating margin is expected to decrease to a single-digit
level of 8.6% in FY12/15, mainly based on anticipated M&A expenses.
However, the operating margin should return to the 10% level from FY12/16
onwards.Financial results are
susceptible to the risk of changes in contractual conditions (2) Risks Looking at risks that could
affect financial results, changes in management policy by companies that
purchase social media data could lead to a cancellation of current
subscriptions, and this could have an impact on financial results. That said,
Hottolink already has approximately 500 corporate customers in Japan.
Furthermore, the amount of data purchased is expected to continue to increase
mainly based on expansion in the data platform business. Therefore, FISCO
believes there is an extremely low likelihood that subscriptions will be
cancelled. The same holds true for
Socialgist. Notably, in the event of a change in contractual conditions with
Sina Weibo, a major data supplier, there is the risk of an impact on financial
results. Maintain no dividend policy
for FY12/15 due to current upfront investment phase (3) Shareholder return policy Regarding the return of profits to shareholders, Hottolink plans
to pay out dividends to shareholders in the future. However, Hottolink believes
that it is currently in an upfront investment phase where it should actively
allocate funds primarily to investment in development, and the recruitment and
training of talent. Accordingly, Hottolink plans to maintain its no dividend
policy in FY12/15. 報告內容僅供參考，不得作為任何投資引用之唯一依據，且其投資風險及決定應由投資人自行判斷並自負損益。