DVxInc.(JP-3079)TokyoStockExchangeFirstSectionConsecutiveincreasesinrevenueandearningsinFY3/16,arecordhighinoperatingincomeinFY3/16
  2015-07-17 提供機構：FISCO 作者：FISCO 點閱次數：11   

DVx
Inc. <3079> (hereafter, “DVx” or “the Company”), a sales company for
medical devices mainly focused in the area of cardiovascular diseases, rests on
two pillars: its arrhythmia business (sales agent) and its ischemia business
(mainly sole import agent). With the top market share for its arrhythmia
business accounting for 40% in the Kanto region and 20% nationally in Japan, it
is expanding market share by taking full advantage of its technical sales
support capabilities. The ischemia business sells products to medical
facilities and distributors by finding non-competing highly advanced medical
devices overseas and then becoming the sole importer with exclusive sales
rights. In
its FY3/15 results announced on May 15, the Company maintained, as it has since
listing, increased revenue and earnings with net sales up 8.4% y-o-y to
¥28,647mn, and operating income up 10.2% y-o-y to ¥1,429mn. While the ischemia
business suffered a slight decline in earnings due to the impact of yen
depreciation, it was covered by expansion in its arrhythmia business and other
businesses, including neurosurgery-related products businesses. Further, in
respect of highly anticipated laser catheters for use in the treatment of
peripheral arterial disease in the lower limbs in the new area of excimer laser
vascularization, enrollment of cases subject to clinical trials was completed in
April 2015, and going forward, a pharmaceutical application will be undertaken
with commencement of sales planned for 2017. The
FY3/16 results outlook anticipates underlying revenue and earnings growth to
continue, with net sales to increase by 10.3% y-o-y to ¥31,589mn, and operating
income to increase by 7.0% y-o-y to ¥1,530mn. Apart from expansion in the core
arrhythmia business, with new development of large-scale hospitals in the
Kansai region, double-digit growth in sales is also expected in its ischemia
and other businesses. Given that the Company will proactively invest in human
resources and IT, it is expected that its profitability will decline slightly,
however, it is a conservative plan. Moreover, the assumed exchange rate is ¥120
to the 1USD, with each ¥1 in yen depreciation resulting in a ¥16mn decline in
earnings. The Company has, in its Medium Term Management Plan, pursued a
strategy of further increasing its share in the arrhythmia area, expanding into
areas other than arrhythmia area (sales agency business) and promoting the
acquisition of exclusive distribution rights in relation to new overseas
medical device products. At the same time as promoting the recruitment of
career staff with strong networks with core regional hospitals, DVx is pushing
for expansion in growth. In the domestic market with an ageing population, it
is expected that the number of patients mainly in the area of cardiovascular
diseases, the Company’s area of business operation, will continue to increase
in the future. It is highly likely that double-digit annual growth rates will
continue in results also for this Company that possesses strengths in areas
such as technical sales support and exclusive distribution rights for leading
niche products.◆Business Overview Top share in medical device
sales in the arrhythmia field Established
in 1986 as a trading company specializing in medical devices, DVx has achieved
steady increase in its revenues, earnings and real dividends since it was
listed in 2007. The Company’s operations are classified into three segments:
arrhythmia business, ischemia business and others. Looking at the composition
of FY3/15 net sales, we see little change in the trend from the recent few
years, with the arrhythmia business contributing 81.2% and the ischemia
business 15.3%, and these two businesses representing more than 96% of the
total. Looking at the composition of segment profits, the ischemia
business is slightly higher compared to its proportion of net sales at 28.4%.
The reason behind this may be that, as it mainly sells medical devices to
domestic trading companies as a sole import agent with exclusive sales rights,
the ischemia business has strong control over pricing, though the Company does
cover marketing costs and regulatory application fees. On the other hand, the
arrhythmia business is based on a model where the Company sources related
products from manufacturers or trading companies and sells them to medical
facilities, and thus is an environment where price competition is likely
because of competing companies dealing in the same products. These
environmental differences reflect the differences in profit margins.(1) Arrhythmia business Principal
products in the arrhythmia business include pacemakers, ICDs (Implantable
Cardioverter Defibrillators), CRT-Ds (Cardiac Resynchronization Therapy
Defibrillators), electrode catheters for examinations and ablation (myocardial
ablation) catheters. As
products handled by the Company require not only specialist technical knowledge
but also support capabilities, a trusting relationship between the doctors that
actually use the devices and the sales representatives is of paramount
importance in doing business. The key strengths of the Company are that there
are few trading companies that specialize in handling arrhythmia-related
products, it has a large number of veteran sales staff possessing ample
experience, and it has a solid track record of supplying to medical facilities
that treat large numbers of cases, and we feel that the direction adopted by
healthcare authorities in seeking to improve medical treatment efficiency by
centralizing advanced medical care in core regional hospitals also positively
influences the Company’s results over the long-term. With the top market share of 40% in the Kanto area and 20%
nationally, DVx is expanding its market share as it acquires new customers year
after year (its domestic market share being only 13% in FY2008). In most cases,
the opportunity to acquire new customers (medical facilities) occurs when existing
client doctors are transferred. There are many doctors who wish to continue
dealing with the Company at their new place of work, and thus the medical
facility they are transferred to becomes a customer. For this reason, in cases
where the new place of work is a regional medical facility and the Company does
not have a sales office in the region, DVx may accommodate such customers by
establishing a new local branch or sales office, after taking into
consideration profitability under its business plan. In FY3/15 the Company
established a local branch in Miyazaki, creating a 21 location structure
nationwide. The establishment of that branch office was a result of a request
by a manufacturing supplier, and for the reason that there was no major local distributor.○Ischemia Business Principal
products in the ischemia business include automatic contrast injection systems
(product name: ACIST), excimer laser systems and PTA balloon catheters. The
Company sells these products to medical facilities across the country as a sole
importer through its distributors. DVx has established 6 sales offices in major
cities nationwide. Automatic
contrast injection systems, which DVx commenced import and sales of in 2000,
are extremely competitive products representing market shares of 50% for the
devices themselves and over 60% for consumables; which is also a reason that
this business segment maintains high profit margins. As of end-March 2015,
approximately 409 medical facilities have installed these devices, with the
domestic distribution cycle being basically completed. At present, sales are
focused mainly on consumable sales. The excimer laser system started being used widely after the
coronary catheter (for treatment of coronary artery) was approved for coverage
under NHI in July 2012, and a total of 69 have been introduced in medical
facilities as of end-March 2015. The range of its applicable use under NHI,
including treatment of peripheral arteries in the lower limbs, is expected to
expand in the future. As for PTA balloon catheters, the Company outsources
their manufacture to FILMECC CO., LTD., a wholly-owned subsidiary of ASAHI
INTEC CO., LTD. <7747>.○Others The “Others” segment includes products not included in other two
main business segments of arrhythmia and ischemia, such as neurosurgery-related
and gastrointestinal system-related products, as well as radiation protection
products and books. In respect of neurosurgery-related products, it is being
developed, focusing mainly on the Shizuoka sales office which acquired these
operations in 2010.◆Results Trends Last period actual results
exceeded initial forecasts, increased sales in all business segments (1) FY3/15 Results Overview FY3/15 results continued the growth in both revenue and earnings
that has occurred since DVx was listed, with net sales up 8.4% y-o-y to
¥28,647mn, operating income up 10.2% y-o-y to ¥1,429mn, ordinary income up
11.3% y-o-y to ¥1,458mn and net income up 16.7% y-o-y to ¥919mn; also coming in
over the initial Company plan.Apart from steady expansion in
sales of core arrhythmia business products, in its ischemia business, excimer
laser angioplasty system-related consumables performed soundly (e.g. coronary
catheters). Further, in other business also, in addition to expansion in sales
of neurosurgery-related products, sales were recorded for large-sized medical
devices, with all business segments achieving growth in sales. Moreover, the
impact on sales due to the pricing revision of insurance reimbursement prices
in the Spring of 2014 was a factor tending to reduce sales by 3.4%. The operating income margin rose by 0.1 ppt to 5.0%, comfortably
ensuring the target of being above the 4% mark. The 0.6 ppt decline in the
SG&A ratio due to the impact of higher sales, despite deterioration in the
COGs ratio by 0.5 ppt year-on-year as a result of changes in the product mix
(e.g. increases in ischemia products and neurosurgery products manufactured by
other firms) and the yen depreciation trend in foreign exchange rates,
contributed to this (improvement. Moreover, operating income decreased by ¥100mn
due to the yen’s depreciation.Further, the clinical trial
costs associated with laser catheters for treatment of arteries in the lower
limbs for which trials are being progressed as a new area for excimer laser
angioplasty systems were ¥140mn, or a year-on-year decline of around ¥30mn. In
respect of the trials, enrollment of all scheduled 50 cases was completed by
April 2015, and going forward, after activities such as follow-up observations,
DVx will apply for pharmaceutical approval, with sales scheduled to commence in
2017. In addition to volumes
performing well in terms of sales, we may cite expansion in
neurosurgery-related products and the recording of large-sized medical device
sales as factors that tended to push results above the initial plan. Further,
from a profit perspective, in addition to the impact of higher sales, the fact
that trial costs could be kept marginally under the initial plan was a factor.
FY3/15 performances by business segment are explained below ○Arrhythmia
business Net
sales in the arrhythmia business rose 7.7% y-o-y to ¥23,268mn, while segment
profit rose 6.5% y-o-y to ¥3,377mn. Despite there being an impact from the
lowering of insurance reimbursement prices, against a background of increases
in the aged population, the trend is for cardiovascular disease patient numbers
to increase year after year, with continuing expansion in volumes being a
(contributing) factor. Also, growth in non-metropolitan areas such as Kansai,
Hiroshima and Fukui stood out. Sales in metropolitan areas are growing,
however, in terms of the proportion of sales, at 75% the trend is one of
decline from 80% three years ago; reflecting the fact that new customer
acquisition is progressing steadily. Looking
at sales trends by major product, apart from steady expansion in electrode
catheters (with ablation function) which rose 7.9% y-o-y to ¥2,798mn, Freezor
Cardiac CryoAblation Catheter*1, for which
sales as a new product were commenced in July 2014also contributed ¥379mn to
increased sales. Further, in line with prevalence of 3D mapping test systems,
diagnostic ultrasound catheters*2 also
experienced double-digit growth of 30% y-o-y to ¥1,636mn. On
the other hand, despite pacemakers being flat on a unit volume basis, sales
declined 5.8% y-o-y to ¥2,743mn due to impact of reduced insurance
reimbursement prices, and electrode catheters (for ablation) were down 2.9%
y-o-y to ¥1,138mn due to the impact of a partial shift to cryoablation
catheters. The profit margin in this business declined 0.2 ppt y-o-y to
14.5%. Due to medical fee revisions implemented in April 2014, there was an
impact from reduced insurance redemption prices for most of the main products
handled, however, by also promoting reductions in procurement costs, it was maintained
at almost the same level as the previous period.○Ischemia business Net
sales in the ischemia business rose 5.4% y-o-y to ¥4,392mn, while segment
profit declined 1.0% y-o-y to ¥1,391mn. Apart from consumables for its core
Automatic Contrast Injection System (ACIST) performing soundly, as a result of
proactively engaging in the recruitment of career staff who have strong doctor
networks, new customer acquisition progressed, and general distributor products
also, such as coronary artery stents, performed well, with double-digit growth.
While
other business sales are still small at less than 10%, coronary catheters (for
coronary artery treatments) also showed outstanding growth of 90% y-o-y. Since
becoming covered by the NHI in July 2012, in addition to installations of
excimer laser angioplasty systems units themselves in medical facilities
nationwide, 0.9mm small diameter products becoming newly covered by the NHI in
June 2014 has (also) led to further growth in demand. Moreover, the number of excimer laser angioplasty system units
installed in medical facilities has increased steadily to 69 by end-March 2015
(a year-on-year increase of 3 units), however, there have been declines in the
number of units sold annually, with declines in sales of the system units
themselves.The profit margin in this business declined by 2.0 ppt to 31.7%.
As noted above, this was impacted on by rises in procurement costs as a result
of yen depreciation and changes in the product mix. With regard to changes in
the product mix, the impact came from rises in the proportion of sales
represented by products sourced from other distributors such as coronary artery
stents.○Other business Both
revenue and earnings increased significantly in DVx’s other business, with net
sales rising 53.2% y-o-y to ¥986mn, and segment profit increasing 48.5% y-o-y
to ¥124mn. In addition to sales of neurosurgery-related products (e.g. stents
and catheters) performing soundly, the main reason for this is the inclusion in
sale of angiography systems, which are large-scale medical devices
(cardiovascular system x-ray imaging systems). In this business also the
recruiting of career staff has been highly beneficial, with, in particular,
sales of related products increasing significantly at the Hamamatsu sales
office (Shizuoka) and Fukuyama branch office (Hiroshima). Segment profit margin declined 0.4ppt y-o-y to 12.6%, however,
in addition to the profit margin in large-sized medical devices being lower,
the reason is that neurosurgery-related products are still at relatively low
levels. However, in respect of neurosurgery-related products, it has been cited
as one area that will be focused on in the medium term, and going forward DVx
will promote product expansion and by seeking to expand the volume of sales aim
to lower procurement costs and increase profit margins.Continues to exceed 20% ROE,
and continues to improve productivity (2) Financial status &
management indices Looking
at DVx’s financial condition at end-March 2015, total assets rose ¥1,435mn
y-o-y to ¥12,760mn. The main factors behind the rise were an increase in
accounts receivable (up ¥463mn) associated with increased sales at the period
end, increases in inventories (up ¥395mn) associated with increased unit volume
sales of proprietary DVx products, and an increase in cash and deposits (up
¥106mn). On
the other hand, liabilities rose ¥658mn from the end of the previous period to ¥7,781mn.
The main reason was an increase in accounts payable (up ¥661mn) associated with
increased procurement. Also, Net assets rose ¥777mn y-o-y to ¥4,978mn due to an
increase in retained earnings (up ¥750mn). Looking at management indices, the shareholders’ equity ratio,
which indicates safety, rose 1.9 ppt y-o-y to 39.0%, and further the
debt/equity ratio was 2.9%, making it in practice a debt free structure, and
may be termed to be in a healthy financial position. Looking at profitability
indices, the OP margin is trending stably at around 5.0%, with both the ROE and
ROA steady and maintaining levels of over 20% and over 10% respectively. In
particular, the ROE is an investment indicator that institutional and other
investors valued most, with the maintenance of an excellent level over 20%
especially noteworthy. Also, looking in relation to productivity indices as
well, within the strengthening of staff structures, sales per employee is in an
upward trend, which may be regarded highly as the undertaking of effective
investment in human resources.◆Future Outlook Expectation of new record
high operating income in this period also, impact from yen depreciation limited
(1) FY3/16 Results Outlook The
outlook for FY3/16 results is for net sales to increase 10.3% y-o-y to
¥31,589mn, operating income to increase 7.0% y-o-y to ¥1,530mn, ordinary income
to rise 5.0% y-o-y to ¥1,530mn and net income to rise 8.0% y-o-y to ¥993mn.
This anticipates 29 years of consecutive growth in net sales and consecutive posting
of record high operating income. DVx’s
strategy is to promote expansion in results while promoting new customer
acquisition going forward, armed with its advanced technical support
capabilities, within a market environment where the trend is for increased
numbers of patients in the field of cardiovascular diseases, associated with
the progression of the ageing society. The operating income margin will decline
0.2 ppt to 4.8%, however, apart from continuing to proactively hire career
staff in this period also, this is because an increase in staff costs is
expected due to among other things plans to hire around 30 staff with the aim
of strengthening of head office functions and other factors. In particular,
there will be roughly a doubling of the number staff to date at the Osaka sales
office to around 10. Due to the recruitment of career staff, the Company has
succeeded in acquiring seven to eight large-scale hospitals as customers, and
in this period by focusing on responding to new customers, it is promoting
sales expansion in the Kansai area. Moreover, in line with increases in new
customers during this period or the next period, the Company is also
considering establishing a new sales office, with Wakayama or Nara the
candidates. Apart
from implementing IT investment for improving internal work efficiency, other
measures include becoming proactive also in investment in medical device
manufacturing venture companies that may lead to securing sole distribution
rights for new products. Moreover, the assumed exchange rate is ¥120 per USD1, and in the
case going forward that yen depreciation proceeds further, there is the
possibility that this will be a factor tending to depress earnings, however,
import sales are only around 10% of the overall, and thus the impact will not
be too great. Hypothetically, even if it is a factor behind cost increases, it
is felt that it will be easily able to be covered by, for example, reduction in
other costs.In plans by business segment
the arrhythmia business is expected to be up 9.5% y-o-y to ¥25,470mn. Apart
from being able to anticipate the results of new customer acquisition in the
Kansai area, DVx will also promote the further development of existing
customers. Additionally, it will also continue to tackle reduction in
procurement costs. By product, growth in catheter categories is expected,
focusing on cryoablation catheters. Small gains in unit volumes of pacemakers,
ICDs and other devices are also expected. The outlook in the ischemia
business is for double-digit growth of 13.0% to ¥4,961mn. Apart from securing
replacement demand for Automatic Contrast Injection Systems (ACIST), by
promoting the installation of excimer laser angioplasty systems, the Company
expects increased sales of consumables such as coronary catheters. However, it
is expected that profit margins will decline slightly as procurement costs rise
due to yen depreciation. The Company is aiming for the
number of excimer laser angioplasty system units installed to rise by 10
year-on-year to 79. Given that the cost of a single unit is high, and many
medical facilities are cautious in installing them, DVx’s policy is to also
promote rental installations. If sales commence as scheduled from 2017 for
laser catheters for use in the treatment of arteries in the lower limbs for
which pharmaceutical approval is currently being applied for it will be easier
to promote installation on the medical facility side because, in combination
with percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty therapy*1 and cardiac lead removal *2, three types of operative methods will
be possible with the same excimer laser system. As a result, it is the focus of
attention as one product where further growth may be expected from 2017. Other business is expected to grow 17.3% y-o-y to ¥1,156mn.
Growth in sales for neurosurgery-related products and angiography systems
continues to be expected. In this period, seeking to strengthen sales
structures, the Company plans to enter not only the Shizuoka area, but also the
Kanagawa area in the neighboring prefecture.Plan to expand sales areas
nationwide will also focus on uncovering new products (2) Medium Term Strategy The
Company’s medium term strategy is to divide operations into the “sales agent
business” (arrhythmia and other business) and the “sole importer business”
(ischemia business), taking the directions set out below to tackle
strengthening the respective business portfolios. ○Sales
agent business In respect of its sales agent business, the Company will focus
on rolling out sales areas nationwide and expanding the business fields it
handles. In terms of expanding sales areas, as noted above, apart from
succeeding in new customer acquisition in the Kansai area, it is steadily
expanding in regional areas also, with for example the establishment of a local
branch in Miyazaki. In the cardiovascular field, given that in regional areas
there are virtually no competitors who possess the high quality support
capabilities of DVx, going forward also, although dependent on the customers
(doctors, manufacturing suppliers etc.), the Company’s aim is to expand sales
areas nationally while promoting career staff recruitment.In expanding the business
fields it handles, from FY3/15 DVx is strengthening moves to get involved in
the ischemia and neurosurgery areas as medical care fields outside arrhythmia,
which is immediately leading to increased sales. Given that the scale handled
is still small there are also products with low profitability, however, the
Company’s aim is to accelerate growth, seeking to expand sales volumes while
promoting career staff recruitment. ○Sole
importer business In respect of its sole importer business, in order to promote
the development of a product pipeline the Company will undertake even more
proactively than it has done to date the uncovering of new products. The newly
appointed President and CEO Mr. Shigeru Chiba assumes leadership, and is
working on it with a unit organized reporting directly to him. While striving
to match the broad domestic and overseas network possessed by the CEO, who held
a position for many years with a foreign medical device manufacturer, with the
needs divined locally by DVx’s staff, the Company will uncover new products.
Target candidates are those that are expected to be marketable domestically but
that do not have competing products, or those that if commercialized may be
expected to have a large market share.◆Shareholder Returns Policy Progressively increasing
dividends in step with earnings expansion, with a 20% payout ratio as the
yardstick The
Company’s underlying dividend policy emphasizes maintaining stable dividends
based on a dividend payout ratio of 20%. Along with results expansion the
Company has continued to raise dividends in each consecutive year since listing
in 2007. In FY3/16 the dividend will be flat year-on-year at ¥18.0 (a payout
ratio of 20.4%), however, in the previous period the Company added a ¥1.0
dividend to commemorate its First Section listing, and so, on a regular
dividend basis, it is continuing to increase dividends. If it appears that
results will exceed the Company’s plan the likelihood of dividends being
increased is high. As part of its shareholder benefits program, the Company awards
Quo cards (prepaid gift card) to shareholders of register, as of the end of
March (with a card that is equivalent to ¥1,000 awarded to those with at least
100 shares but less than 200 shares; and a card equivalent to ¥2,000 awarded to
those with 200 shares or more.) The total return on investment, including
shareholder benefits, is over 2%. 報告內容僅供參考，不得作為任何投資引用之唯一依據，且其投資風險及決定應由投資人自行判斷並自負損益。