DynamJapanHoldings(JP-06889)HongKongStockExchangeAcceleratingselectionofcandidatelandfornewhallsitesfromthesecondhalfofFY3/15(II)
  2015-01-20 提供機構：FISCO 作者：FISCO 點閱次數：18   

◆Future: Casino High motivation for entering casino business, severe risk
control The company has a strong
desire to enter casino business as the second business following the present
pachinko hall management business. However, “IR bill (a bill concerning the Law on Promotion of the
Development of Specified Integrated Resort Areas)” was dead upon the Lower House dissolution in November. As there
was a high expectation at first for the passage of the bill, disappointment
grew among investors at one point. However, FISCO considers we should not be too much disappointed
because the ruling Liberal Democratic Party is positive about passing IR bill
and there is good room for New Komeito forming the ruling coalition to come
down in favor of the passage of the bill subject to certain conditions. As the
name, IR bill, symbolizes, casino is considered as a facility in an integrated
resort area and the cause of the law lies in the vitalization of local
economies and promotion of international tourism. Therefore, it is thought that
the ruling LDP will resubmit the bill upon the political stability which is
more likely to be passed.Regarding the company’s positive stance toward casino, it is assumed that some might
be concerned about business risks as a large sum of investment is estimated
while it will enlarge the opportunity of revenue growth. In this connection the
company makes it its basic stance not to be too much into excessive investments
and to make an entry by choosing a local area where the company is thought to
have less competition and where it has locational advantage and connections.
Thus, it is perceived that the company is taking a fairly cautious stance. In
any case, the casino issue has returned to the starting point, so FISCO
understands it can be positioned as a neutral factor to the company. The discussion on “Pachinko tax” can be said to have also returned to the starting point under
circumstances similar to those for the casino issue. Pachinko tax and casino
legalization are inextricably linked together, so judgement is very difficult
as to the evaluation or pros and cons of influences that the legalization of
both issues would give since nothing has been decided at this moment. The
company is confident of converting it to a plus factor if Pachiko tax is
introduced. But we would think that this issue can be positioned as neutral in
the same manner as the casino issue because the discussion has returned to the
starting point.◆Finance: Analysis of ROE High-quality ROE, Balance between dividend and capital
investment is important. The company’s ROE (Return on Equity) as of the end of FY3/14 was 15.9%. This
is enough to be highly valued as it is over the international standard of 15%.
Further, its ROA (Return on Asset) is 20.1% exceeding ROE. Thus, we may
evaluate the ROE is a high-quality ROE. If we look at the company’s ROE’s, we see they are on a
deceasing trend. The factor is, simply put, the growth of equity capital exceeds
that of net profit of current period. As an effective means of curbing equity
capital growth, a dividend increase can be considered. But on the other hand
the company has a self-imposed restraint on capital investments within its cash
flow, so it is difficult to raise dividends excessively. If that is the case, the
company needs to boost up the increasing ratio of net profit for current
period, but it is also difficult to pull it up rapidly in the midst of the
shrinking trend of the entire industry. There would necessarily be a time-lag
until profits out of an expanded network of halls by capital investments will
boost up the growth ratio of profit for current period. FISCO has calculated the
company’s ROE as of the end of FY3/15 with the
assumption that its business results for FY3/15 will be the same as those for
FY3/14 and got the result of 14.5%. FISCO’s views of the company’s
present status are that, positively speaking, factors such as net profit for
current period, dividends, capital investments are balanced and, negatively
speaking, those factors are checking one another resulting in getting stuck in
piled up equity capital making ROE’s
lowered. In order to break through this situation and restore profit growth and
ROE increase, we would say that the present balance should dare to be broken. And, attention should be paid to see management’s judgments if what part of each element , will be broken, and
for what purposes it will be broken.◆Business results: Settlement of accounts and outlook For the middle term (First 6 months) of FY3/15, influence
from increased consumption tax rate was remarkable in June and later (1) Financial results for the
middle term (first 6 months ended September 30, 2014) of FY3/15 The company had financial
results for the middle term (first 6 months) of FY3/15 with the following
figures: operating revenue;¥ 80,682 mn (decreased by 1.8%
y-o-y), operating profit; ¥16,067 mn (increased by 0.5%
y-o-y), profit before income taxes; ¥14,729
mn (decreased by 8.7% y-o-y), net profit for current period; ¥9,036 mn (decreased by 12.1% y-o-y). Income from pachinko ball rental as gross income was ¥425,297 mn (decreased by 9.6% y-o-y). In April and May, there
was almost no influence from the increased consumption tax. However, in June
the influence appeared remarkable and it has continued till date. Decreases in
customer visits were particularly remarkable in local areas in such a way it is
the epitome of the Japanese economy and affected the company holding its halls
throughout Japan. To cope with that, the company promoted opening new halls and
conversion of the main type of halls to halls mainly with low-playing cost
machines but was not able to increase ball rental income On the other hand,
corresponding to the decrease in ball rental income, prizes to be given in
exchange for balls won by customer also decreased by 11.3%. Thus, the income as
balance of the two ended with a decrease of 1.8%.In terms of expenses, the
company decreased its hall operation expenses by 4.1% y-o-y to ¥64,791, which absorbed increased SGA costs owing to increases in
subsidiary companies, and boosted up operational profit. It is due to a
decrease in the market value of short-term investment securities (equity share
of IGG, Singapore) that the difference between profit before income taxes and
net profit for current period was enlarged. In terms of hall types, while at the core “Yuttari Kan” ball rental fee income
increased by 12.7%, at the traditional “Dynam” and “Shinrai no Mori” large income decreases were
recorded. Although that may have proved “Yuttari Kan”’s ability of attracting
customers probably with low-playing cost machines as its major machines.
However, it should be noted that this may be a result influenced by the
increase in “Yuttari Kan” halls due to newly opened halls as well as conversion of the
hall type. FISCO assumes that a certain percentages of even “Yuttari Kan” halls must have decreased
such income year-on-year in terms of existing halls.Customer acceptance acquired, Prepared for recovery in
the second half of FY3/15 or later (2) How to judge business
results for the second half of FY3/15 or later In the second half of FY3/15,
severe industry circumstances are continuing in the same way as the first half.
In October and November as well sales were generally about 10% lower y-o-y in
the industry. Even the company who is one of the industry leaders struggled in
the first half to stop bleeding so to speak. It is a key point whether the
company can take any effective counter-measures in the second half that would
increase customer visits. To come right to the point, it
seems to be pretty difficult to go up a first-moving river stream even to the
company. Therefore, it should be of utmost importance that the company will
make low-key steady efforts, in the same way as in the first half, to keep
attracting customers in the planned business zone. As the results of the first
half show, the company has been successful in acquiring customer satisfaction
by way of aggressive promotion of “low-playing
cost machine operation” armed with an overwhelming
company scale and low-cost operations. Therefore, it will become important to
establish the positon of No. 1 in the area through further advancing such
strength to be prepared for the next time of pachinko demand recovery. Another important point is the
company’s aggressive policy of opening halls.
During this fiscal year about 20 new halls are planned, which however are below
the 30 halls FISCO had in mind, not to mention the company’s yearly average pace of 40. But our company values this as
positive in that the company did not lower the hurdle for hall-opening
standards but practiced quality-oriented careful hall-opening work. However, in
FY3/16 the company’s hall-opening is likely to
accelerate at a stretch. In the background there’s a situation where the issue of land as sites for new halls are
beginning to be solved, which has been the largest bottleneck for new openings
of halls. The company’s sites for new halls are land
converted from agricultural land in many cases. In rural areas cases are
increasing of converting agricultural land alongside roads to commercial use
land due to such reasons as shortage of agricultural successors. The company is
a good lessee seen from these farming households and increases in such land
leasing offers seem to assist the company’s new hall openings. With the increasing pace of
opening new halls, the company seems to close highly-inefficient halls. There
seem to exist Halls, which are in red even before sharing headquarters
expenses, at the rate of a few percentage of all halls, so the company appears
to advance measures to tackle such negative aspects toward strengthening
management quality. Anxiety is minimal in terms of the company’s standardized model for opening a hall or its low-cost
operations after a hall is opened. The largest concern is whether the company
is capable of earning planned income. We consider that the largest point for
FY3/16 is what kinds of positive measures the company will implement for its
topline growth (growth of revenue/ operational income). The company may take
measures such as those taking advantage of a large scale of halls closer to 400
or measures taking advantage of competitive superiority each individual hall
has in the same commercial zone. In any event, FISCO is of the view that there
is no doubt that the company holds a comparatively advantageous position
because of its larger scale and strength.◆Dividend: Return to shareholders Dividend payout ratio 35% targeted, Highest possible
return to shareholders The company is highly conscious of returns to shareholders and
sets 35% or more as its dividend ratio target. The company has already decided ¥ 7 per share as dividend for the first 6 months of FY3/15, which
means the dividend payout ratio will be 57.5% as earnings per share was ¥ 12.17.As mentioned already in this report, the company holds a high
level of new hall opening plan and makes it the most important company creed in
terms of its growth strategy and finance to cover expenses for opening halls
and dividend payout to shareholders with its cash flow (total of net profit for
current period and depreciation cost). We would think that we should highly
value the company’s stance of placing importance
on shareholders by aiming for the highest possible return to its shareholders
within such a framework. 報告內容僅供參考，不得作為任何投資引用之唯一依據，且其投資風險及決定應由投資人自行判斷並自負損益。