DaikokuDenkiCo.(JP-6430)TokyoStockExchangeFirstSectionEstablishingoverwhelmingsuperioritythatitscompetitorscannotmatch
  2015-08-03 提供機構：FISCO 作者：FISCO 點閱次數：23   

Daikoku
Denki <6430> (hereafter, “the Company”) has two main segments, the
Information System Segment, which develops, manufactures, and sells computer
systems for pachinko (Japanese pinball) parlors or halls, and the Control
System Segment, which develops, manufactures, and sells display and control
units and pachinko slot machines. The Company holds the top share, or
approximately 35%, of the Japanese market for hall computers, reflecting an
information management method that is the de facto standard for the industry.
Meanwhile, the Company’s membership information service called the Daikoku
Denki Strategic Information System (DK-SIS) gathers, processes and analyzes the
daily operational information of pachinko halls with customer associations and
gives feed-back to the managers of these halls to improve their operations. It
is the only such system in Japan and the customer network built up upon this
service supports the Company’s business base. The system was used by 3,719
pachinko and pachinko slot halls at FYE3/15. It has also made a fully fledged
entry into the manufacture and sale of in-house developed pachinko slot
machines. As
Japan’s pachinko market has been shrinking for several years, the Company is
pursuing three main reforms to achieve growth over the medium to long term: 1)
development of a next-generation hall computer, 2) shifting to a stock-type
revenue model, and 3) expansion of in-house developed pachinko slot machines.
Over the next few years, the Company will continue to advance its plan to
invest about ¥10bn to develop a hall computer (including peripheral equipment)
that will operate on a cloud server and be capable of advanced analysis of Big
Data. It will be far superior to any competing computer and should allow the
Company to increase its share of the Japanese market for these machines. In
FY3/15, both sales and profits declined; sales were down 5.1% y-o-y to
¥54,043mn, and operating profit declined 73.3% to ¥1,425mn. Sales were largely
in-line with the forecast, but while it had been anticipated that profits would
be kept down by R&D expenses and other factors, temporary cost factors,
such as the loss following the bankruptcy of a pachinko machine manufacturer
client, put further downward pressure on profits. So if we put to one side
these temporary factors and look at the growth of peripheral equipment, which
the Company is focusing on, and on the steady launch of its in-house developed
pachinko slot machines, its results seem to be basically progressing in-line
with targets. For
FY3/16, the Company is forecasting an 11.0% y-o-y rise in sales to ¥60,000mn
and a 40.3% increase in operating profit to ¥2,000mn. Although there are
concerns about the effects of self regulation in the industry,* which is
forecast for the H2 of the fiscal year, the Company intends for the fully
fledged deployment of its own brand of pachinko slot machines to be the driving
force behind its results. At FISCO, we consider that the Company’s results will be
dictated by the effects of industry self regulation and trends in the sales of
pachinko slot units. But taking into consideration its results up to the
present time and the assumptions for its targets, we judge that it will be
possible for it to achieve its results forecasts.◆Business Description No.1 market share for
Pachinko hall computers Daikoku
Denki develops, manufactures, and sells computer systems for pachinko halls as
its core business. It also manufactures and sells display and control units for
pachinko machines and pachinko slot machines, and pachinko slot machines
developed in-house. As
the pioneer in the development of hall computers, which assist the management
of pachinko halls, the Company won hall’s trust and pachinko fan’s
satisfactions by providing the management system which put emphasis on data
management, introduction of innovative peripheral equipment for its hall
computers, and utilization of the only membership information service in the
pachinko industry; and it holds the top share of the Japanese market for hall
computers. Its
hall computers are installed in about 4,100 pachinko halls in Japan, primarily
high-end halls, giving it an approximately 35% share of the market. The
Company’s two main businesses are the Information System Segment and the
Control System Segment, but the Information System Segment provided 68.6% of
its total sales in FY3/15 and is the main source of stable profit. (1)
Information System Segment The
Information System Segment offers a complete line of information equipment and
services to support sales and operational management at pachinko halls. Hall
computers are the core of the system used within halls, and these are supported
by peripheral equipment, such as prize customer management systems and
information display systems. For consolidating and analyzing the data recorded
by this equipment, the Segment offers services such as a hall operational
support service and a membership information service unique in the industry and
serves as a strategic tool. Hall computers display the operating condition of each machine
and sales data, and are the core systems for supporting pachinko hall
operations. As mentioned above, these computers are supported by peripheral
equipment, such as prize customer management systems and information display
systems; and also serve as the foundation of the DK-SIS system, the membership
information service. The major strengths of this business are that peripheral
equipment and support services are often sold with hall computers as a package
deal. Other than the sales of its information system equipment, the Company is
shifting to a stock-type revenue model by reinforcing regular fee income
business from after-sales management support service and information supply
service.(2) Control System Segment The
Control System Segment produces LCD display units, control units, switches and
motors to makers of pachinko and pachinko slot machines. Applying the expertise
obtained in hall computers during many years of analyzing data from pachinko
machines through its DK-SIS, the Segment is serving as a developing partner to
machine manufacturers by proposing specifications based on trend analysis of
popular machines, and involved in contents business by obtaining the rights to
use popular characters, beyond the Segment’s position as a unit manufacturer. Daikoku Denki began manufacturing and selling in-house developed
machines on a full scale from FY3/14 through the brand of DAXEL Inc., its
consolidated subsidiary (subsequently, “own brand”). The Company has had a
series of hit products with original value creation that has more emphasis on
entertainment, like the pachinko slot game machines Magical Suite Prism Nana
and Sasami-san@ Ganbaranai Slot, and has established a high quality brand image
specialized in anime.◆Company Strengths Introduce information
equipment that is the first of its kind in the industry and open up new markets
through original characters (1) By offering valuable
innovations, the Company established market development type growth model Since
its establishment, Daikoku Denki has consistently planned and developed new
categories of goods and services, thereby developed the pachinko market and
achieved growth. It has not just developed machines with superior functions but
emphasized the importance of data management and the need for information
disclosure. Thus, it has been able to present ideas with added value to the
various aspects of management of pachinko halls. Launched
in 1974, the Company’s first hall computer enabled the managers of pachinko
halls to introduce a hall management method based on data management.
Previously, pachinko halls accumulated only basic information, but with the
introduction of hall computers, data-based hall management became the de facto
standard. In subsequent years, the Company introduced other kinds of
information equipment with revolutionary functions. One such piece of equipment
was the Data Robo terminal, which provides information about different models
of pachinko machine to the pachinko hall visitors. This equipment has enhanced
the profitability of pachinko halls by increasing the efficiency of pachinko
hall management and the satisfaction of pachinko machine fans. One
new business being pursued by Daikoku Denki is the in-house developed pachinko
slot machines that differ from previous pachinko slot machines and pachinko
machines, which tend to be chosen based on the appealing of gambling. As
mentioned above, the Company commercialized a pachinko slot game machine that
displays original animation characters created by popular illustrators, and it
pursued the commitment to quality in animations and voice actors. This
high-quality machine has won accolades from pachinko slot machine fans who also
love animation videos, and the Company has again established a new market for
amusement equipment. (2)
The Company has established a strong network of pachinko halls Another advantage Daikoku Denki has is the DK-SIS, hall computer
based membership information service. This service connects the Company and
member pachinko halls through networks, and gathers, processes and analyzes the
daily operational information of pachinko halls recorded by hall computers, and
feed-back useful information to the managers of these halls to improve their
operations. The managers of halls in which Daikoku Denki’s hall computers are
installed can make proper store management by using useful information such as
operational data on nationwide pachinko machines and sales data broken down by
the model of pachinko machine. As for Daikoku Denki, this firm network with
member halls is supporting its operating base. The Company also serves as a
think tank on the pachinko industry and, as a leading company of the industry,
this elevates the Company’s brand name. The service is currently used by 3,719
pachinko and pachinko slot halls that operate approximately 1.37mn machines, or
30.0% of all the machines installed in Japan, and gathers the data of ¥10.2
trillion annual sales.(3) Stable revenue base
supports the Company’s investment in the future growth Daikoku Denki’s main source of competitiveness is its investment
in future growth, including its R&D expense. Over the past few years, the
Company has maintained aggressive investment in future growth driver fields
such as pachinko slot machines and a next-generation hall computer, and other
products. The stable revenue stream or Cash Cow provided by the high-margin
Information System Segment make this investment possible. The Company’s ability
to balance large profits from its existing businesses with heavy investment in
businesses of the future allows it to maintain sustainable value creation.◆Industry Environment The increase in the size of
halls is proving a tailwind and the market scale is recovering to ¥4 trillion Japan’s pachinko industry has been shrinking for years,
reflecting a decline in the pachinko fan’s population, a trend toward playing
games with low rental costs for balls, increases in Japan’s consumption tax,
and other factors. According to surveys by the National Police Agency, the
number of pachinko and pachinko slot halls in Japan declined at an average
annual rate of 1.7% for five years from 2010. In 2014, the number of halls was
11,627 (down 266 halls y-o-y) and Daikoku Denki served about 4,100 of these
halls, or about 35%. Most of Daikoku Denki’s customers are high-end pachinko
halls, so those halls are relatively insensitive to economic cycles and have
money enough to invest in new businesses.However, according to Company estimates, while the number of
pachinko machines in Japan has declined, the number of pachinko slot machines
has increased, meaning the combined number of pachinko and pachinko slot
machines has trended practically unchanged. Since the number of pachinko and
pachinko slot halls decreased over the same period, this indicate the trend for
large scale hall operations. Upsizing of pachinko and pachinko slot halls with
advantage of scale, benefits Daikoku Denki, as the Company can seeks high
investment effect from advanced functionality and added values.According to Daikoku Denki’s estimate, the value of Japan’s
combined market for pachinko and pachinko slot games, as measured by the gross
profit earned by all halls nationwide, has fallen each year, and this value has
also declined on a per-machine basis. Thus, even though pachinko halls and
pachinko slot halls are increasing in average size, they continue to operate in
a challenging business. Daikoku Denki believes that the combined market for
pachinko and pachinko slot games could recover to about ¥4trn per year in
mid-term once the pachinko industry has recovered from a temporary downturn in
business following the latest consumption tax hike, and if Japan’s economy is
able to overcome deflation as the country prepares to host the Olympic Games in
Tokyo.In FY3/16, industry self regulation to limit machines that are
highly conductive to gambling are expected to be applied (to pachinko machines
from November 2015 and to pachinko slot machines from December 2015). In the
past also, the Company has experienced a slump in results in hall computers due
to limits placed on models considered too conducive to gambling and there are
concerns of a similar slump this time. But if viewed from a difference
perspective, this development can be considered as promoting the conversion to
the management of hall computers that are not dependent upon gambling.◆Financial results trends The Information System
Segment achieved record high sales for the third consecutive fiscal year (1) Performance over the past
six fiscal years Looking back at the results over the past 6 fiscal years, in
FY3/11, the Company’s sales shrank y-o-y because of restrained consumer
spending and the impact of the Great East Japan Earthquake. But since then, the
Company’s sales have rebounded even though the pachinko industry has continued
to consolidate. This recovery was led by the Information System Segment, which
holds high market shares for its products and achieved record high sales for
three consecutive fiscal years up to FY3/15.Supported by the high
profitability of the Information System Segment, the Company has maintained a
high profit margin since its recovery from 2011 disasters. The profit margin
has declined since FY3/14 due to factors including the increase in development
expenses for next-generation hall computers. But when taking into account this
expense, it can be said that it is still being maintained at a high level. The Company’s equity ratio, a measure of financial stability,
has remained high, reflecting large retained earnings, and rose to 60.0% in
FY3/15. The current ratio, which indicates the ability to make payments in the
short term, was 175.5% in FY3/15, mainly due to large holdings of cash and
deposits. ROE, which is a measure of capital efficiency, fell to a level of 2.7%
in FY3/15 (from 10.5% in FY3/14), so the temporary cost factors had a major
impact.(2) FY3/15 Results In
Daikoku Denki’s FY3/15 consolidated results, both sales and profits fell. Sales
declined 5.1% y-o-y to ¥54,043mn, operating profit fell by 73.3% to ¥1,425mn,
recurring profit dropped by 71.4% to ¥1,566mn, and net profit weakened by 73.3%
to ¥874mn. Sales were 98.3% of the Company’s initial forecasts, so were
basically as expected. But operating profit was greatly below the target, at
47.5%. However, the majority of the shortfall in operating profit compared to
the target (approximately ¥1,575mn) were temporary cost factors; specifically,
a loss following the bankruptcy of a pachinko machine manufacturer customer
(around ¥950mn) and a loss associated with changes to estimated costs in
outsourced software development (approximately ¥350mn). Looking
at sales by segment, in the Information System Segment, sales of peripheral
equipment for hall computers, such as information disclosure systems and card
reader (CR) units, grew considerably, more than the Company had forecast, which
supported the growth of the Segment’s sales. But in the Control System Segment,
sales were much lower than planned due to the declines in the number of sales
models and the increase in the rate of reused parts among customers.
Consequentially, the total sales result for both segments was roughly in-line
with expectations. While
it was anticipated that the profit level would be kept down due to the change
to the profit model and the increase in R&D expenses (up 4.9%), the
temporary cost factors, including the loss following the bankruptcy of a
pachinko machine manufacturer customer, put further downward pressure on
profits. As a result, the operating profit margin fell greatly to 2.6% (from
9.4% in the previous fiscal year). On the one hand the equity ratio, which is an indicator of the
Company’s financial strength, was 60.0% and maintained its high level (up from
59.8% at FYE3/14). But on the other hand ROE, which is an indicator of capital
efficiency, fell to 2.7% (down from 10.5%) because of the temporary cost
factors.Results by segment are as
follows. In FY3/15, the Information
System Segment increased its sales by 2.9% y-o-y to ¥37,104mn, but segmental
operating profit dropped 30.3% to ¥4,244mn, meaning sales rose but profits
fell. The Segment sold 131 hall computers in FY3/15, which was down from 203 in
FY3/14. But it sold more peripheral equipment for hall computers, such as
VEGASIA (CR units) and BiGMO PREMIUM (data display terminal), than it had
forecast, leading to overall sales growth. Sales of the Management Support
Service or MG service, which was promoted by the Segment, grew 18.0% y-o-y to ¥3,380mn
in FY3/15, due in part to an increase in the number of halls that use the
DK-SIS. Operating profit in the
Information System Segment decreased y-o-y in FY3/15 for two main reasons: 1)
R&D expenses increased 33.6% y-o-y as the Segment continued to develop a
next-generation hall computer, and 2) the Company changed its profit model for
CR units, which has achieved significant growth, by lowering the profit margin
on sales of the units in exchange for the increase of monthly management fee of
information collected by these units. This change of profit model reduces the profitability
of the products sold, but instead the Company can earn continuous after-sales
fee income, so this change does not reduce the Company’s overall profitability.
In the Control System Segment,
sales declined by 18.9% y-o-y to ¥16,950mn in FY3/15, and the Segment recorded
an operating loss of ¥1,105mn (compared to an operating profit of ¥1,127mn in
FY3/14). The number of display units sold declined 17.7%, due mainly to the
decrease in the number of models. In addition, makers of pachinko and pachinko
slot machines increased their rates of reused parts to lower costs, from 24.4%
in FY3/14 to 66.8% in FY/3/15. Thus, overall sales and profits fell below the
targets. In addition to the impact of
the decline in sales, the temporary cost factors of a loss following the
bankruptcy of a pachinko machine manufacturer customer and a loss associated
with changes to estimated costs in outsourced software development resulted in
the Segment slumping to an operating loss. The Company sold approximately 7,000 units of 2 models for its
in-house developed pachinko slot machines, which it is currently focusing on.
In addition to selling around 6,000 units of Sasami-san@ Ganbaranai Slot, which
became a particularly big hit, the performance of hall computers as highly operational
models greatly contributed to the Segment’s results. It is estimated that the
profit-and-loss breakeven point is sales of around 7,000 to 8,000 units, so as
yet it has not become profitable. But it can at least be said to have made
solid progress toward the fully fledged deployment from the current fiscal year
(FY3/16).The Company expects
contribution from the fully fledged deployment of pachinko slot machines (3) Company Forecasts for
FY3/16 For
its FY3/16 consolidated results, Daikoku Denki is forecasting an 11.0% y-o-y
increase in sales to ¥60,000mn, a 40.4% rise in operating profit to ¥2,000mn, a
27.7% increase in recurring profit to ¥2,000mn, and a 60.2% growth in net
profit to ¥1,400mn. As
an assumption at the time of the initial forecasts, there were concerns about
the impact of industry self regulation, but on the whole it seems like the
pachinko and pachinko slot industry will be basically unaffected. In
sales by segment, sales in the Information System Segment are forecast to decline
as the new product effects that acted up to the previous fiscal year have run
their course. But in the Control System Segment, the fully fledged deployment
of in-house developed pachinko slot machines is expected to contribute greatly
to an increase in sales. Profits will be affected by increases in investment expenses for
next generation hall computers, in outsourcing expenses from the rise in the
number of pachinko slot machine units sold, and in SG&A expenses because of
higher sales promotion expenses and sales commissions (¥18,000mn, up 26.5%
y-o-y). However, the operating profit margin is forecast to improve to 3.3%
(from 2.6% in the previous fiscal year) following the elimination of the
temporary cost factors in the previous fiscal year.Results forecasts by segment
are as follows. Sales in the Information
System Segment are forecast to decline 5.7% y-o-y to ¥35,000mn, and segment
operating profit to fall 31.7% to ¥2,900mn. The Company anticipates it will
sell 150 hall computers (up 14.5%). However, the reason it is forecasting a
decline in sales are that the new product effects that caused sales of
peripheral equipment (CR units and information disclosure equipment) to grow a
pace greater than anticipated up to the previous fiscal year have run their
course. On the other hand, sales of the Management Support Service (MG Service)
that the Company is promoting are forecast to grow steadily to ¥3,720mn (up
10.0% y-o-y), and are expected to underpin the performance of its highly
profitable services. In addition to the impact of
lower sales in keeping down profits, development expenses of ¥3,700mn (up 36.5%
y-o-y) for the next-generation hall computers are planned and consequentially,
the segmental profit margin is expected to fall to 8.3% (from 11.4% in previous
fiscal year). In the Control System Segment,
a major recovery in results is expected, with sales to rise 47.5% y-o-y to ¥25,000mn
and segmental profit to reach ¥1,000mn (compared to a loss of ¥1,105mn in the
previous fiscal year). Continuing on from the previous fiscal year, the number
of display units sold will be impacted by the decline in the number of models
and also because the rate of reused parts among customers will be at the same
level as the previous fiscal year. But the growth in results from the fully
fledged deployment of the Company’s own brand pachinko slot machines is
expected to be a major driving force behind the recovery in results.
Specifically, based on a sales target of a total of 30,000 units from 4 models,
the Company is forecasting to return to profitability with sales of ¥10,000mn. In terms of profits, while R&D expenses are set to increase ¥1,900mn
(up 69.0% y-o-y), this will be absorbed by the higher sales and in addition,
the temporary cost factors of the previous fiscal year will be eliminated.
Therefore, the Company is forecasting a major improvement in the segmental
profit margin of 4.0% (compared to a loss of ¥1,105mn in the last fiscal
period).At FISCO, we consider that the Company’s results will be
dictated by the effects of industry self regulation and the trends in the sales
of pachinko slot machines. The former may have a negative impact in the H2 of
the year, but as the Company has already fully analyzed its potential impact
and incorporated this into its forecasts, it is considered that it will not be
a factor behind results falling below targets. With regards to the latter also,
as indicated by the results of Sasami-san@Ganbaranai Slot that was a hit
product in the previous fiscal year, the Company has acquired name recognition
as a high quality brand specializing in anime, so it is thought that achieving
its sales target of an average of 7,500 units per model will not be that high
of a hurdle.◆Company History An industry leader and the
first in its industry to become a member of Keidanren (Japan Economic
Federation) The
predecessor of Daikoku Denki was established in Osaka City in 1964 by Shinji
Kayamori, the father of Daikoku Denki’s current president, Hideyuki Kayamori.
Initially, the Company was a sales agency for electronic calculators. It then
branched out into the sale of magnetic counters and developed devices to count
the coins inserted into baseball pitching machines at batting centers. In 1968,
it developed a device to count the balls in a pachinko machine, its first
venture into the pachinko industry. In 1974, the Company entered the hall
computer business, and since the 1990s, as pachinko and pachinko slot machines
have become more electronic, the Company has supported the growth of the
pachinko industry by supplying superior hall computers, which have become the
most important tool for operating halls efficiently. In
1990, the Company developed the DK–SIS service, the membership information
service for pachinko halls, and the pachinko industry’s first call lamps, which
display information about Jackpot machines. In 1991, the Company began selling
Data Robo terminals, which provide information about varieties of pachinko
machine models to fans of these machines. By developing such revolutionary
equipment for managing data and disclosing information, the Company contributed
to the efficient operation of pachinko halls, increased the pleasure of
pachinko fans, and supported the sales and profits of the pachinko industry. By
the mid-1990s, the Company had established a position of the leading company in
the pachinko equipment market, but in 1996, the pachinko industry changed the
regulations pertaining to pachinko machines, and scrapped about 700,000
pachinko machines that judged to be too conducive to gambling and considered
socially inappropriate. This caused a sharp drop in sales in the pachinko
industry and at the Company, which lost about 100 employees that year. During
such a trying period, the current president, Hideyuki Kayamori entered the
Company. He had studied information technology at Kyoto University’s graduate
school and he is not only planning to expand current business base but also
envisions next generation business by utilizing the vast amount of data the
Company had accumulated. With
the aim of converting pachinko and pachinko slot games into socially acceptable
forms of amusement, in 2006, Daikoku Denki established as a subsidiary pachinko
slot machine maker, Daxel Inc. and began developing its own pachinko slot
machines. Daikoku Denki listed its shares on the Second Sections of the
Tokyo Stock Exchange and the Nagoya Stock Exchange in November 2002. In April
2004, it elevated its listings to the First Sections of both exchanges. In
2014, the Company celebrated its 50th year and became a member of Keidanren,
the Japan Economic Federation, as the first member with business centering on
the pachinko equipment industry.◆Growth Strategy Its strength that enables it
to undertake large-scale developments is a major advantage The Company is pursuing its three-year medium term management
plan with FY3/15 as its first year. It has positioned the period until its next
generation hall computers are completed as an important investment period and
is implementing business reforms in order to develop the industry as a whole
and achieve further growth. The Company has not disclosed any specific
numerical targets, but it is taking the following three steps to achieve growth
over the medium to long term.1) Developing the
next-generation hall computer In
FY3/14, the Company started developing the next-generation hall computer, which
will operate on a cloud server and be capable of advanced analysis of Big Data.
Unlike previous hall computers, the next-generation computer will be able to
gather and analyze data on customer behavior and to recommend actions to
improve sales and profits, thereby contributing to the growth of the pachinko
hall industry. This capability could also be applied to other business areas.
For three years from FY3/15, the Company plans to invest about ¥10bn in R&D
primarily to develop the next-generation hall computer (including for
peripheral equipment), although it has not announced a date for the initial sales
of this computer. By launching sales of this computer, which will be far
superior to any other such machine, over the medium term the Company plans to
raise its share of the Japanese market for hall computers to 50%, as Tokyo
prepares to host the Olympic Games in 2020. In September 2014, the Company
expanded its Kasugai Plant in Aichi Prefecture to help it increase its market
shares in information systems. 2)
Converting business model to stock type revenue model The
Company is changing its Information System Segment’s business model to stock
type revenue system that collects service fees after the sale of such
equipment. This change allows the Company to sell its hall computers and
peripheral equipment at low prices, thereby increasing its price competitiveness
and its market shares while after-sale service fees will be stable source of
earnings. 3)
Expanding the in-house developed pachinko slot machines In-house
developed pachinko slot game machines under its own brand are another growth
driver planned by the Company. The first commercially successful model, Magical
Suite Prism Nana, which was released in FY3/14, was the first such machine in
the industry incorporating original characters and unique view of the world,
and sold around 4,000 units. In addition to Sasami-san@ Ganbaranai Slot, which
became a big hit product in the previous fiscal year, by incorporating a
condensed version of all 12 episodes of a TV anime and the installation of
large all LCD screens and large capacity 64GbitROM, the Company is realizing a
form of pachinko slot entertainment that offers players new experiences with
the emphasis placed on story, and has established a high quality brand image
specialized in anime. Going forward also, its policy is to develop its
businesses centered on the “Moe Suro (slot game with attractive characters)”
model that is attracting attention in the “anime age,” and rather than
enjoyment only from the number of balls, players will enjoy the story content
that is incorporated into playing its pachinko slot machines and the Company is
planning to convert the pastime to a more socially acceptable form of
amusement. Profitability
is forecast for this business in FY3/16 on a single fiscal year basis, and in
the medium term, the Company aims for a market share of 5–10%. Toward this end,
it plans to continue to invest heavily in development. At
FISCO, we considered that within the harsh business environment in the pachinko
and pachinko slot industry, the fact that the Company is able to invest around
¥10 billion in the development of next generation hall computers is a major
advantage. Even though the market is shrinking, we think it is fully possible
that it will be able to achieve growth through increasing its market share. In
addition, it is also highly likely that there will be a weeding-out of players
in the hall computers industry based on capital strength, and this trend toward
industry restructuring is also likely to work to the Company’s advantage. On the other hand, from this fiscal year the Company has begun
the fully fledged deployment of its in-house developed pachinko slot machines
and it will be necessary to keep an eye on how they perform in the future.
Compared to existing manufacturers, it is able to spend a sufficient amount of
time and money on developing each model, and it utilizes data analysis in order
to develop machines that are highly appealing and enjoyable to play. So on
these points also, it is considered fully possible that the Company will be
able to demonstrate its superiority and these slot machines will greatly
contribute to its results as a new growth driver. However, rather than stealing
existing market share from its competitors, the key to successfully stimulating
the market as a whole is likely to be creating original value that only the
Company is able to provide in order to capture a new target market, such as
anime fans. We will be paying close attention to whether it is able to achieve
this.◆Shareholder Returns Provides a supplemental
dividend based on results The
Company’s policy up until recently was to pay an annual dividend of a minimum
of ¥40 per share (a stable dividend) and to supplement this payment depending
on its profits. But from FY3/16, it has raised the stable divided to ¥50 per
share For FY3/15, initially an annual dividend of ¥40 was forecast,
but in order to implement its policy of strengthening its management
foundations, the Company has decided to pay an interim dividend of ¥10 per
share and a year-end dividend of ¥60 per share for a total dividend of ¥70 per
share. For FY3/16, an annual dividend of ¥50 is forecast (interim dividend of
¥10 and a year-end dividend of ¥40). However, as was stated above, the
Company’s policy is to supplement its dividend payment based on results, so the
dividend may be increased. 報告內容僅供參考，不得作為任何投資引用之唯一依據，且其投資風險及決定應由投資人自行判斷並自負損益。