TOKAIHoldings(JP-3167)TokyoStockExchangeFirstSectionSteadyprogressinfirstyearofnewmedium-termmanagementplan,profitsforthethird-quarterexceedplan
  2015-04-02 提供機構：FISCO 作者：FISCO 點閱次數：26   

Based in Shizuoka Prefecture,
Japan, TOKAI Holdings Corporation (“TOKAI”) <3167> engages in the energy and home services business,
with a focus on LP-gas (“LPG”), and the telecommunications business. Under its Total Life
Concierge (“TLC”) concept, the company launched its new three-year medium-term
management plan, Innovation Plan 2016 “Growing,” in the fiscal year ending March 2015, with the aim of achieving
JPY 209.5 billion in net sales and JPY 12.6 billion in operating profit in the
fiscal year ending March 2017, the final year of the plan. In the first three quarters of
the fiscal year ending March 2015 (April 2014-December 2014), TOKAI achieved
JPY 135,981 million in net sales, an increase of 2.3% year-on-year (“y-o-y”), and JPY 4,866 million in
operating profit, an increase of 52.3% y-o-y. Although net sales progressed
mainly as planned, profits were about 10% higher than the target. The main
factors were strong growth in sales volume and better-than-anticipated progress
in business process efficiency improvements in the LPG business, and
plan-beating performance in the telecommunications and water businesses . The
number of customers in the entire group at the end of December was up to a
total of 2,540 thousand, showing a steady increase of 30 thousand y-o-y,
attributable to the increase in its broadband and water businesses. As for the
TLC membership service , which was introduced for the purpose of increasing
customer satisfaction, the number of members at the end of December steadily
increased to a total of 378 thousand with the proportion of TLC members to all
subscribers rising to 14.9%. The company has left its
operating results forecast for the fiscal year ending March 2015 unchanged,
expecting to achieve JPY 196,900 million in net sales, a 4.2% increase y-o-y,
and JPY 8,870 million in operating profit, a 20% increase y-o-y. The reason for
leaving the forecast unchanged is that the company anticipates an increase in
customer acquisition cost following the launched of sales of a set product with
NTT fiber access in the broadband and CATV businesses in the fourth quarter.
Furthermore, the company has factored in a decline in sales prices in the LPG
business to follow a fall in purchasing prices, as well as a reduction in
profit following a review of inventory valuation at the end of the fiscal year.
Despite these factors, we believe that TOKAI can still achieve its profit
target. As key strategies for
achieving its medium-term management plan, TOKAI is focusing on “retaining customers and promoting multiple transactions” and “realizing TLC by making a
fresh entry in sales of electricity”.
With regard to “promoting multiple transactions” in the first strategy, the company hopes to accelerate the
strategy through the introduction of a new point reward system, “TOKAI Smart Plus,” and is examining options for
early launch of system. With regard to “sales of power” in the second strategy, the
company establish a dedicated marketing subsidiary, “TOKAI Home Gas ” in April 2015 to strengthen
its internal marketing system ahead of the liberalization of the electric power
industry in fiscal year 2016.◆Business Trends Third quarter sales mainly as
planned, operating profit exceeds target (1) Results for the
Third-Quarter Cumulative of the Fiscal Year Ending March 2015 Consolidated results for the
third-quarter cumulative of the fiscal year ending March 2015 (April
2014-December 2014) show that TOKAI achieved JPY 135,961 million in net sales,
a 2.3% increase y-o-y, JPY 4,866 million in operating profit, a 52.3% increase
y-o-y, JPY 4,517 million in recurring profit, a 52.6% increase y-o-y, and JPY
1,819 million in net profit , a 97.7% increase y-o-y. The company has not
disclosed its plan for third quarter cumulative results, however net sales seem
to have progressed in line with the plan, while operating profit has exceeded
the plan by around 10%, mainly in the LPG business. The cost of sales ratio increased by 0.2 percentage points
y-o-y; however an increase in gross profit due to higher sales and the effect
of reduced SG&A expenses helped to boost earning. For the third quarter
(October 2014 – December 2014), the company continued
its trend of increasing sales and profits, although the rate of growth slowed,
with net sales climbing 0.1% y-o-y and operating profit increasing 9.5%.The number of customers in the entire group at the end of
December was 2,540 thousand, an increase of 30 thousand y-o-y. The number of
customers by main service category is as shown in the table. The number of
customers declined slightly in the LPG and CATV businesses, but increased or
remained level in other businesses such as broadband and water. As for the TLC
membership service which was introduced in December 2012 for the purpose of
retaining customers and increasing the multiple usage rate, the number of
members at the end of December steadily increased to a total of 378 thousand
with the proportion of TLC members to all subscribers rising to 14.9%.Mainstay gas and oil business
and information and telecommunications business to see dramatic increase in
earnings (2) Status by Business Segment
Performance trends by business segment are as follows:○Gas and Oil TOKAI’s Gas and Oil segment achieved net sales of JPY 67,106 million,
a 0.2% increase y-o-y, and operating profit of JPY 4,376 million, a 32.7%
increase y-o-y. Although the number of customers in the LPG business, a primary
business in the segment, decreased by 5 thousand y-o-y, and sales volumes for
household and commercial use were down 0.6%, net sales increased slightly y-o-y
because of an 8% rise in sales for industrial users, the effect of passing on
price increases in the second half of the previous fiscal year, and other
factors. Factors that made a
significant contribution to increasing profit include the streamlining of
back-office departments and the effect of reduced SG&A expenses from work
efficiency gains. In segment performance for the
third quarter only, net sales declined by 3.0% y-o-y while operating profit
increased by 10.5%. Factors included the downward revision of LPG sale prices
in August 2014 following a drop in the purchasing price, which offset the
effect of the price increase in the second half of the previous fiscal year, as
well as a decline in sales volume. The number of customers continued to decline gradually. This was
mainly due to a rise in the number of cancellations resulting from increasing
price competition in the Greater Tokyo Area, and a decline in the number of new
contracts. Looking only at the figures for Shizuoka Prefecture, the number of
customers increased by 2.6 thousand from the end of the previous fiscal year.
The Greater Tokyo Area is expected to see increased competition going forward.
The company plans to step up its marketing activities in this area from the
fiscal year ending March 2016 onwards, with the goal of increasing the number
of customers there.○Information and
Telecommunications The Information and
Telecommunications segment achieved net sales of JPY 30,020 million, a y-o-y
increase of 4.9%, and operating profit of JPY 3,716 million, a y-o-y increase
of 15.2%. The profit increase was attributable to a steady increase in
customers in the broadband service business, up 14 thousand y-o-y, as well as
success in keeping customer acquisition costs level with the previous fiscal
year. These efforts increased profits by around JPY 200 million. In the business
for corporate customers, soaring demand for high-speed data transmission
services and data center services against a backdrop of market growth for cloud
computing services effectively boosted sales by around JPY 200 million. In segment performance for the third quarter alone, sales and
profits both continued to climb, with net sales recording a 7.3% y-o-y rise,
and operating profit increasing by 4.6%.○CATV The CATV segment achieved net
sales of JPY 18,207 million, a 0.6% y-o-y increase, and operating profit of JPY
1,309 million, a 6.4% y-o-y decrease. While the number of customers in the
broadcasting business fell by 9 thousand y-o-y due to intensified competition
with major telecommunications carriers, the number of customers for
telecommunications services steadily increased by 4 thousand, enabling the
business to continue increasing sales. This is likely due to the continued
contributory effect of adopting a set discount in collaboration with mobile
network operators. The main factors weighing on
profits were the addition of JPY 100 million in customer services costs in
association with the end of rebroadcasting outside the designated digital
broadcast area of the Tokyo flagship stations. Furthermore, in segment
performance for the third quarter alone, net sales rose 0.3% y-o-y while
operating profit declined 5.7%. ○Construction and Real
Estate The Construction and Real Estate segment achieved net sales of
JPY 13,311 million, a 7.5% y-o-y increase, and operating profit of JPY 349
million, a 40.9% y-o-y decrease. The sales increase is mostly due to the
company’s reform business in the Kanto region,
which was included in Gas and Oil segment in the previous half-year, being
transferred to Construction and Real Estate segment; and, in real terms, it
remained almost flat. Despite steady progress in delivery of newly-built
condominiums (Shizuoka Prefecture, 12 units), overall activity in the segment,
including housing sales and reform businesses, remained low due to the
consumption tax hike. Moreover, the reform business performed slightly below
the company’s plan, causing operating profit to fall
slightly below target.In segment performance for the
third quarter alone, net sales were down 0.3% y-o-y while operating profit
slipped 39.8%. For the time being, the business environment will continue to
present challenges. In light of this market environment, the company’s policy is to continue strengthening its business in
custom-built homes. ○Water The Water segment achieved net
sales of JPY 3,707 million, a 13.3% y-o-y increase, while the operating loss
decreased from JPY 1,695 million in the same period of the previous fiscal year
to JPY 1,166 million. The number of customers at the end of December steadily
increased to 133 thousand, a y-o-y increase of 12 thousand. The sales increase was due to
factors including continued efforts to increase brand recognition of Urunon,
the company’s water product, by using “Doraemon” as the image character for
One Way water delivery service, strengthening sales promotion focusing on large
commercial facilities in the Kansai, Hokuriku and Tohoku regions in addition to
the Kanto region and the launch of a new product, Sarari, smoother natural
water with less vanadium and mineral contents. For this segment, the company
aims to reach its break-even point of 180 thousand customers in the fiscal year
ending March 2017. The improvement of operating profit was attributable to a
decrease in advertising expenses in addition to the sales increase.
Furthermore, in segment performance for the third quarter alone, net sales were
up 9.8% y-o-y to JPY 1,284 million, while the operating loss improved to JPY
187 million from JPY 377 million in the same period of the previous fiscal
year. Looking ahead, the company will continue focusing on customer
acquisition, so operating expenditure could increase; however, the business is
steadily progressing towards achieving profitability in the fiscal year ending
March 2017.○Others and Adjustments In the “Others” segment and adjustments, net sales amounted to JPY 3,626
million, a 0.1% y-o-y increase, and operating loss amounted to JPY 3,718
million, remaining unchanged from the operating loss of JPY 3,623 million
recorded for the same period of the previous fiscal year.In the nursing business, the company operates a total of seven
day-service facilities and private nursing care homes in Shizuoka Prefecture.
Sales are increasing atop growth in the number of users; however, with the opening
of three new facilities in the fiscal year ending March 2015, an increase in
upfront costs has weighed slightly on profits. On the other hand, with regard
to the wedding business, net sales have continued to decline as the number of
weddings continues to fall. The company has decided to close one of its three
wedding venues in Shizuoka Prefecture at the end of March 2015. Looking at
segment performance for the third quarter alone, net sales were down 0.4%
y-o-y, and operating loss was level with the same period of the previous fiscal
year.Interest-bearing debt
continues to decline, and financial status is steadily improving (3) Financial Status The following table shows the
company’s financial status as of the end of
December 2014. Total assets amounted to JPY 168,034 million, decrease of JPY
5,586 million from the end of the previous fiscal year. This is primarily due
to JPY 1,727 million decrease in accounts receivable, a JPY 3,196 million
decrease in tangible fixed assets and a JPY 1,531 million decreased in
goodwill. Meanwhile, total liabilities were down JPY 6,482 million from
the end of the previous fiscal year to JPY 128,808 million. The main factors in
the decrease were a JPY 3,100 million decrease in interest-bearing debt, a JPY
1,880 million decrease in income taxes payable, and a JPY 1,078 million
decrease in accounts payable. Interest-bearing debt is continuing on a
declining trend, and the company’s financial status is steadily
improving. Furthermore, net assets increased JPY 895 million from the end of
the previous fiscal year to JPY 39,225 million, of which the valuation
difference on available-for-sale securities increased by JPY 796 million.Improved profitability in the
water business and companywide reduction in SG&A expenses set to achieve
full-year earnings targets (4) Forecast for FY Ending
March 2015 The company’s forecast for consolidated
operating results for the fiscal year ending March 2015 has been left unchanged
at net sales of JPY 196,900 million, up 4.2% y-o-y, operating profit of JPY
8,870 million, up 20.0% y-o-y, recurring profit of JPY 8,320 million, up 18.6%,
and net profit of JPY 3,740 million, up 43.9% y-o-y. In progress over the first
three quarters, the company is ahead of its plan on a profit basis, however this
reflects the effects of two negative factors expected to occur in the fourth
quarter.The first negative factor includes a cost associated with
revaluation of inventories in the LPG business at the end of the fiscal year
due to the impact of falling purchase prices. There is also a possibility that
the sale price will be reduced in March.The second negative factor is
the lifting of the ban on NTT fiber optic access wholesale sales from March.
The company will respond by launching Internet services as a set with fiber
optic access from March, but this is expected to increase customer acquisition
costs accordingly. Although it is only for one month, it is expected to have
some impact. However, even when these two factors are taken into
consideration, we believe that the company is highly likely to achieve its
planned profits. Sales expansion is continuing in the Information and
Telecommunications segment and Water segment, and in terms of profits the Water
segment has improved its operating loss, while companywide SG&A expense
reductions are expected to have an ongoing effect.◆Three-year Medium-term
Plan Aiming to achieve net sales
of JPY 209.5 billion and operating profit of JPY 12.6 billion (1) Summary of medium-term
plan, “Innovation Plan 2016 ‘Growing’” In June 2014, TOKAI announced a medium-term plan, Innovation
Plan 2016 “Growing”, ending in fiscal year 2017 (term ending in March 2017). The
plan’s basic policies include: 1) improved
sales and profitability by building up the number of customers; 2) continued
improvement of financial structure; and 3) delivery of steady and sustained
returns to shareholders. The company has also announced specific management
targets, aiming to achieve net sales of JPY 209.5 billion as well as operating
profit of JPY 12.6 billion in the final year of the plan (see table).Retain retail customers by
increasing the number of TLC members (2) Retaining customers and
promoting multiple transactions As a strategy for achieving
its medium-term management plan, the company intends to focus on retaining
customers and promoting multiple transactions. Retaining customers will be
possible by increasing the number of TLC members. To increase the group’s
number of customers to 2,730 thousand by the final year of the plan, the key
issues for the company to address is how to increase the number of customers
with multiple transactions for its various services including gas and
telecommunications, broadcasting and Internet, as well as the electric power
services it plans to offer in the future. The company makes use of a system for
awarding points to TLC members and will introduce a scheme called TOKAI Smart
Plus to increase the rate of reward points awarded to users who subscribe to
multiple services. This strategy aims to create a sense of benefit for such
users and helps to increase the ratio of multiple service users.With the number of existing
customers who use multiple services only accounting for 7% of all customers,
there is large growth potential. The company is discussing options for fast
implementation of TOKAI Smart Plus. Since the effects of the new program are
not incorporated in the medium-term plan, this may lead to exceeding the
original forecast. Marketing Subsidiary to be
Established to Strengthen Sales Structure (3) Advancing initiatives with
a focus on electric power sales TOKAI has announced to launch
electric power retail services, led by the liberalization of electric power
retail sales in 2016. The Company is looking to start providing services in
Shizuoka and the Kanto region simultaneously at the time of liberalization, and
is making steady progress in its preparations. The recently announced plan to establish the new subsidiary
TOKAI Home Gas in April 2015 is also a part of this initiative. This will be a
dedicated marketing subsidiary, separate from the current sales team for LPG
and other services. Establishing a separate company will streamline the process
of developing new customers for the group’s multiple services. From fiscal 2016, the group will add
electric power supply services to its lineup and strengthen its sales structure.
This is expected to increase its customer base going forward.Market Launch of Cloud-Based Preschooler Management System “Pastell Apps”(4) Start of cloud-based
services for students in kindergarten and daycare In February 2015, the company’s subsidiary, TOKAI Communications Corporation, launched a
cloud-based preschooler management system “Passtell Apps,” developed in collaboration
with Internet production and development company Sunfront. The system enables
kindergartens and daycare centers to manage preschooler, parent, and staff
information centrally on a cloud platform to streamline administration, while
facilitating smooth communication with parents. Special features of the service
include the ability to link with the HOP* preschooler development support system.
HOP is a system for presenting an evaluation of a preschooler’s developmental status and environment based on scientific
grounds, by selecting the appropriate answer to set questions about his or her
development. The system enables educators and parents to work together to
provide appropriate support for the child’s growth. The monthly usage charge (excluding tax) start from
JPY 10,000, and the set price together with the HOP service starts from JPY
15,000. The total number of kindergartens and daycare centers as of 2013
was approximately 37,000, and is expected to increase going forward. The TOKAI
group’s management vision is to realize the
concept of a “Total Life Concierge.” The entry into the preschool education market is another
service that the group will focus on as part of its effort to expand its
business.◆Shareholder Return
Policy Actual Dividend Payout Ratios
for the Last Three Periods were Over 40%; 30% Expected for the Fiscal Year
Ending March 2015 The Company’s dividend policy is based on
paying out stable dividends, but, after its transition to a holding company
structure, actual dividend payout ratios for the last three periods were over
40% respectively. The ratio for the fiscal year ending March 2015 is expected
to be over 30% as well. As for shareholder benefits, the Company gives some of
its water products [Urunon “Fuji-no-tennensui (Mt. Fuji
natural water)” or others], worth to JPY 1,800, a QUO
card, equivalent to JPY 500, or reward points of “TLC Members” service, a comprehensive
membership service, worth to JPY 1,000, per unit of shares biannually at the
end of March and at the end of September to its shareholders . Based on the
current market price level, in the case where shareholders select the water
products, the total return is calculated to be approximately 8%, which is an
attractive level. 報告內容僅供參考，不得作為任何投資引用之唯一依據，且其投資風險及決定應由投資人自行判斷並自負損益。