MeikoNetworkJapan(JP-4668)TokyoStockExchangeFirstSectionPostingRecordQuarterlyNetSales,OperatingIncome,OrdinaryIncome,andNetIncome
  2015-05-27 提供機構：FISCO 作者：FISCO 點閱次數：5   

On April 10, 2015, Meiko
Network Japan Co., Ltd. announced its consolidated results for the first half (from
September 2014 through February 2015) of the fiscal year through August 2015
(H1 FY8/15). Consolidated H1 net sales increased 19.5% year on year (YOY) to
\9,368mn. Operating income was up 6.5% YOY to \2,117mn. Both these figures were
record semiannual highs. Operating income rose for the first time in two years.
Earlier in the year, the company acquired MAXIS Education, the largest
franchisee in the Meiko Gijuku business, as a wholly owned subsidiary. This
acquisition added \1,639mn to net sales and \267mn to operating income. Net
sales were \387mn higher than planned at the start of the term. This is
approximately twice the increase we had conservatively forecast for the MAXIS
acquisition. The company has retained its
consolidated full-year forecasts for FY8/15 of net sales increasing 24.8% YOY
to \19,420mn and operating income rising 2.5% to \3,500mn. That is apparently
because the Meiko Gijuku FC business segment has not yet to fully recover, as
competition has stayed intense in the private tutorial schools market. The
company will thus push ahead in FY8/15 with establishing new schools while
overhauling existing ones. The company could enhance results if initiatives
since this term begin to gradually bear fruit. These include initiatives to
revitalize the organization by integrating the Meiko Gijuku Directly Operated
Business Division and Meiko Gijuku Franchised Business Division, setting up a
customer support center, and deploying new information systems to streamline
school operations. The company has deployed such
new operations as Waseda Academy Kobetsu Schools, Meiko Soccer Schools, and
Meiko Kids Schools. The latter offers considerable growth potential because
demand is increasing for childcare. It opened three schools in spring this
year, and admissions have generally been steady. Meiko Kids Schools plans to
continue expanding. Waseda EDU Japanese Language School is another acquisition
which became a wholly owned subsidiary, and is doing well in serving overseas
students. The company has an active stance on returning profits to
shareholders. For FY8/15, the company plans to raise its dividend per share by
\2 to \34.00 (dividend payout ratio 41.5%), and plans to raise its dividend
payout ratio to around 50% gradually. The company also introduced a shareholder
reward program, under which each shareholder of 100 shares or more as of the
end of August receives a \3,000 QUO card as a gift. Based on the company’s closing share price on April 17, 2015, of \1,434, the total
yield to holders of a minimum unit of shares is in the 4% level, significantly
higher than the average dividend yield for listed Japanese companies of
approximately 1.5%.◆Description of
Businesses The Meiko Gijuku business is
a leader in the private tutorial school field and a prime source of sales and
profits Meiko Network Japan’s main business is Meiko Gijuku Schools. Some of these schools
are operated directly, but most are franchised. Meiko Gijuku is the leading
brand of private tutorial schools in Japan. Through a subsidiary, Tokyo Ishin
Gakuin (Tokyo Medical School Preparatory Institute), Meiko Network Japan also
operates a preparatory school business specializing in preparation for medical
university. In addition, the company engages in various other education-related
businesses. Among its other businesses
outside tutorial and supplemental education are Meiko Soccer Schools for
children. There is also Waseda Academy Kobetsu Schools, which provides tutorial
instruction to junior high school and high school students seeking entry into
prestigious high schools and universities. Meiko Kids Schools provides nursery
care for preschool children and after-school care for elementary school
children. Abrakadoodle Art Studios teaches art to preschool and elementary
school children. Waseda EDU, which serves overseas students, is a subsidiary
acquired in October 2014. The company’s
subsidiary YouDEC Co. publishes a magazine featuring information about the
content of entrance examinations for junior high schools and high schools,
produces model examination questions, sells educational materials to students
of private schools, and offers private instruction to students at their schools.
In addition, YouDEC’s subsidiary, Koyo Shobo Co.,
is involved in the academic publishing business. As detailed in the bar chart below, in H1 FY8/15 the Meiko
Gijuku business supplied the majority of Meiko Network Japan’s total consolidated sales and profits. The company’s policy described in its medium-term strategy calls for
extending the growth of the Meiko Gijuku business while developing other
educational businesses.◆Business Trends Meiko Network Japan posted
record semiannual results and increased operating income for the first time in
two years. (1) Overview of 1H FY8/15 On April 10, 2015, the company
announced its consolidated operating results for H1 FY8/15 (September 2014 to
February 2015). Consolidated net sales rose 19.5% YOY to \9,368mn, and
operating income increased by 6.5% to \2,117mn. The company posted record
semiannual results and increased operating income for the first time in two
years. New subsidiaries added
\1,706mn to net sales and \196mn to operating income, the consolidation of
MAXIS being a key addition. The cost of sales per sales
was 60.5%, up 2.2 percentage points YOY, the principal cause being a higher
personnel expense ratio from the acquisition of MAXIS. The SGA expenses ratio
was up 0.5 of a percentage point, but this was due mainly to an increase in
amortization of goodwill. With that factor excluded, the ratio would have been
negative 0.3 of a percentage point. The share of profit of entities accounted
for using the equity method was up \63mn, while the gain on reversal of loss on
valuation of investment securities rose \36mn, helping to boost non-operating
income \125mn YOY. Although net sales were slightly less than planned at the start
of the term, earnings gained more than 20%. The net sales result reflected the
Meiko Gijuku FC business segment’s lagging forecasts, while
earnings benefited from personnel expense constraints progressing more than
anticipated in the Meiko Gijuku directly operated business segment and from the
increased profitability of MAXIS.Higher sales and profit from
Meiko Gijuku directly operated business (2) Business segment trends ○Meiko Gijuku directly
operated business Sales in the Meiko Gijuku
directly operated business segment increased by 45.4% YOY to \5,307mn, and
segment income increased by 29.7% YOY to \1,152mn. The acquisition of MAXIS
added \1,587mn to net sales, \262mn to segment operating income, and \71mn to
goodwill amortization (amortized over 10 years). Even with the contributions of
MAXIS excluded, net sales would have risen 1.9% YOY to \3,719mn, with segment
income gaining 8.3% to \962mn. After excluding MAXIS, the
number of directly operated schools increased by 7 YOY, to 220 by the end of
H1, reflecting transfers from franchisees. The number of students rose 1.1% to
17,842. The average number of students per school was down 2.4, to 81.2, but
sales per student increased from \207,000, to \209,000. The segment income
margin was 25.9%, up 1.6 percentage points YOY, reflecting progress with cost
reductions. MAXIS maintained 89 schools serving 7,143 students. The average
number of students per school was 80.9, and sales per student were \222,000.
The segment income margin before goodwill amortization was 16.5%, which was
considerably lower than the average for Meiko Gijuku directly operated schools.
This reflected the impact of royalties (for the Meiko Gijuku FC business) on
the operations of MAXIS. With this factor excluded, the margin was still
slightly below the average for Meiko Gijuku directly operated schools.○Meiko Gijuku FC
business Sales in the Meiko Gijuku FC
business segment decreased 2.7% YOY to \3,188mn. Segment income declined 2.8%
to \1,580mn (sales included the franchise royalties of \196mn from MAXIS). The number of franchised
schools declined 7 YOY to 1,917. This included the 89 schools of MAXIS.
Although 41 schools opened, an equal number closed. The Kyushu area accounted
for 12 closures, or around 30% of the above total reflecting intensifying price
competition. The number of students declined 0.7% YOY to 121,882. The average
number of students per school was 63.6, down 0.2%. Sales per school were down
1.9% to \1,118,000. Sales and profits were down as the number of students per
school continued to decline and the number of schools decreased.○Preparatory school
business Sales in the preparatory school business that Tokyo Ishin Gakuin
(Tokyo Medical School Preparatory Institute) operates declined by 5.3% YOY to
\296mn. Segment income dropped 45.2% to \27mn. One factor was that the number
of students decreased by 3 YOY to 136. Another was an increased expenditure in
line with company efforts to acquire new students in spring 2015, such as
conducting consultation sessions for entry into medical universities with the
cooperation of private medical universities and proprietary general model
examinations. It also paid for advertising on websites for medical
professionals and in specialist magazines.○Other businesses Sales for other businesses
increased 29.1% YOY to \823mn. The segment loss was \80mn, up from \41mn a year
earlier. By operation, Meiko Soccer
Schools posted sales of ¥67mn (¥65mn in H1 FY8/14) and an operating loss of \7mn (¥10mn in H1 FY8/14). The number of directly operated schools
increased by 2 YOY to 15 schools, and a total of 17 schools including two
franchised schools. The total number of students at directly operated and
franchised schools increased steadily to 1,011, up 86 YOY. Sales from Waseda Academy
Kobetsu Schools were ¥181mn (¥138mn in H1 FY8/14) and operating loss was ¥8mn (operating profit of ¥18mn in H1 FY8/14). The slight loss despite an increase in sales
was due to operating system expenses that had been included in corporate
expenses until FY8/14 being attributed to business segment expenses from
FY8/15. Excluding this factor, the segment saw a slight increase in income. The
number of directly operated schools was 6 (from 2 a year earlier). The number
of franchised schools was 12 (from 16 a year earlier), and the number of Waseda
Academy directly managed schools was 9 (from 4 a year earlier). The number of
students was 1,562 (from 1,161 a year earlier). A key factor in the student
number growth was the track record the schools have built as many students have
passed entrance exams for highly selective junior high and high schools. Meiko Kids Schools opened two schools in spring of 2014,
bringing the number of schools to 3. The number of students (regular students
only) expanded from 77 students in H1 FY8/14 to 221 in H1 FY8/15. Sales doubled
to \43mn (from \23mn a year earlier). Losses increased, however, reflecting
increased initial outlays on school openings. The first Meiko Kids Schools
school has already become profitable.In other operations,
consolidated subsidiary YouDEC Co. increased sales to \335mn (from \301mn in H1
FY8/14) and operating income to \18mn (from \7mn in H1 FY8/14) owing to solid
sales of the key offering of model entrance examination questions. The company
included the results of Waseda EDU from Q2. That new subsidiary generated sales
of \67mn and segment income of \12mn. Amortization of goodwill was \11mn
(amortized on a straight-line basis over 13 years). The operating income ratio
before goodwill amortization was 17.9%, illustrating that this is the company’s most profitable new business. Waseda EDU had 405 students at the end of February 2015, mostly
from Asia. The largest group was from China, at 62.2%, followed by Vietnam, at
13.1%, and Nepal, at 7.4%. Admissions are in January, April, July, and October.
Graduations are in March. The curriculum includes courses as long as two years.
March 2015 saw 136 students graduate. The intake in April was 101 individuals,
with the total number of students standing at 397. With demand strong, the
school has applied to raise capacity from the current 420 students, to 520.
Admissions are currently brisk, so the school looks to have almost 520 students
within a year.The company has maintained a
robust financial position (3) Financial status and
management indicators In the Company’s financial status as of the end of February 2015, total assets
were \18,188mn, up \1,619mn from the end of FY8/14. The main increases and
decreases were due to a \443mn decrease in cash and deposits and a \1,941mn
rise in goodwill owing to the acquisitions of subsidiaries MAXIS and Waseda
EDU. Liabilities stood at \3,930mn,
up \552mn from the end of FY8/14, reflecting the above two acquisitions. Net
assets increased \1,066mn, to \14,258mn, owing to a rise in retained earnings. Turning to management indicators, although the current ratio
declined following a decrease in cash deposits, the equity ratio stayed above
70% and since the company is managed virtually without debt, we consider that
it has continued to maintain a good financial status.◆Financial Outlook and
Future Actions Retaining initial outlook as
earnings trending ahead of projections (1) Financial outlook for
FY8/15 Meiko Network Japan has left
its outlook for consolidated financial results for FY8/15 unchanged, planning
net sales of ¥19,420mn, up 24.8% YOY, operating income
of ¥3,500mn, up 2.5% YOY, ordinary income of ¥3,620mn, up 2.5% YOY, and income of ¥2,260mn, up 2.7% YOY. Through Q2 FY8/15, revenues
slightly lagged forecasts while earnings grew faster than anticipated. As long
as student and school numbers do not drop significantly, we think that the
company is highly likely to reach its targets. Goodwill is slated to increase
from \20mn in the previous term to around \197mn owing to the consolidation of
two subsidiaries. In sales forecasts for each
business, the Meiko Gijuku directly operated business should boost its revenues
48.7%, owing partly to the contribution of MAXIS, but franchised school sales
should rise only 0.3%. Increases were initially predicated on an increase of 60
schools YOY, but there will also be an overhaul of franchised schools. For the preparatory school
business, revenues and earnings continued to decline through Q2 FY8/15, but the
outlook is for gains for the full term. New student numbers increased in spring
2015. The number of registered students was 136 as of April 8, representing an
increase of more than 20% from the 113 registered as of April 30, 2014. With regard to other businesses, the company’s policy is to increase school numbers in Meiko Soccer School,
Waseda Academy Kobetsu Schools, and Meiko Kids, respectively, and is
forecasting an increase in sales due to the attendant increase in student
numbers. That said, Meiko Kids opened three new schools in April 2015, so the
company expects to incur a slightly higher operating loss in the current term
owing to increased investment spending.The key is whether the
company can again expand student numbers (2) Measures towards promoting
the renewed growth of the Meiko Gijuku business Whether the company can
continue the H1 FY8/15 pace of increasing profits for the first time in two
years will depend greatly on whether the core Meiko Gijuku business can again
expand student numbers, which are currently lackluster. Quarterly growth rates for Meiko Gijuku school and student
numbers and system-wide sales suggest declines for student numbers and
system-wide sales since FY8/13, with the growth pace starting to slow for
school numbers. Recently, falls have been comparable to the levels of the
previous term.To date, the company has pursued
a growth strategy that encompasses expanding the number of schools, increasing
student numbers, and increasing sales per student. This is likely an outcome of
intensifying competition among private tutorial schools amid a declining birth
rate. The company thus rolled out five policies to overcome this situation in
FY8/15. The first was to undertake
far-reaching organizational reforms. Specifically, it integrated the Meiko
Gijuku Directly Operated Business Division and Meiko Gijuku Franchised Business
Division and divided the new setup into seven units. This reorganization has
enabled directly operated schools and franchise owners to jointly conduct
seminars, school visits, and other events and share information more than they
have done before. On top of that, franchise owners can now conduct area
gatherings instead of the separate ones put on to date and coordinate
information. Such an approach has helped to increase organizational vitality
and enable schools to mutually incorporate positive facets of what they have
learned. The second policy was to enhance customer satisfaction by
setting up a special support center to enhance communications with students and
their guardians and reduce the rates of recess/ withdrawal.Third, the company decided to
systematize instructor training to reinforce hiring and education and extend
this program for the first time to franchised schools. To overcome difficulties
in hiring instructors, the company launched a contest in which instructors
recounted memorable events, selecting two stories for short movies that it put
on YouTube. The videos apparently attracted more than 200,000 views in the
first two weeks after distribution, and the company hope that it will motivate
more viewers to apply for work as instructors. Fourth, the company started
deploying a new information systems (called the GIS Geographic Information
System and the METIS Portal). The company customized the GIS Geographic
Information System, which started operating in February this year. The system
makes it possible to analyze operating areas accurately, making it possible to
solicit schools and open schools with a greater level of precision. The METIS
information portal links the head office and schools, and also began operating
in February. It is designed to enhance information dissemination from the head
office (distributing both text and images), providing schools with the
information (including for recruiting students, notifying of events, and
gathering competitive information) and tools that they need. This setup also
makes it possible to share operational target management information among
managers of school, franchise owners, supervisors, and other entities, and
should therefore help enhance school operations. Fifth, the company sought to
encourage school openings by reviewing owner recruiting and areas and thereby
bolster satellite school establishments and enhance support when new schools
open. While such efforts will not bear significant fruit soon, they
should contribute to a recovery in student numbers for franchise schools.Looking to post record
earnings gains by as early as FY8/15 (3) Three-year medium-term
business plan For FY8/16, when its
three-year medium-term business plan ends, the company targets net sales of
\20,960mn and \4,120mn in operating income. Management seeks to post record
operating income in this term for the first time in three years. Looking at the sales plan by
business, the company looks for stable growth in the Meiko Gijuku directly
operated and franchised school businesses, with the preparatory school business
and other businesses also delivering gains. Management aims to retain the Meiko
Gijuku business as central to earnings while pushing ahead strategically to
expand school and student numbers in other educational service businesses,
thereby bolstering revenue and earnings underpinnings. The company will continue to pursue M&As, candidate areas
being in the educational services market. This would include areas that the
company does not currently engage in, notably lifelong learning, nursing care,
and behavioral support for the elderly.◆Shareholder Return
Policy Expectations for steady
earnings increase and growth in dividends The company has been recording
continued dividend increases since it was listed on the stock market, and for
FY8/15 it plans an increase of ¥2.00 YOY to ¥34.00. Thus, the company is highly regarded as having a
proactive stance on shareholder returns. The company has established a policy
of raising its dividend payout ratio in steps to 50% with continuous increases
in dividends as its basic policy from now on. Also, the Company has a
shareholder special benefit plan of giving shareholders on August 31 a QUO card
worth ¥3,000 per share unit (100 shares). On the
basis of the closing share price of ¥1,434
on April 17, 2015, the gross investment yield per share unit is in the 4%
level, which far exceeds the average gross investment yield for listed
companies of about 1.5%. The company has established stable high profitability and a
sound financial standing through its unique franchise system in the fiercely
competitive educational service industry. Thus, the company is estimated to
expand steady earnings and, at the same time, to increase its dividends. Also,
with regard to ROE (Return On Equity), which is gaining importance as an
investment indicator, the company’s actual figure was 17.6% for
the previous fiscal year, which far exceeds the average 8.5% for the companies
listed on the first section of the Tokyo Stock Exchange, and thus will gain
continued attention as an attractive company to invest in. 報告內容僅供參考，不得作為任何投資引用之唯一依據，且其投資風險及決定應由投資人自行判斷並自負損益。