VTHOLDINGSCO.,LTD.(JP-7593)JASDAQConcentratingonAutomotiveBusinesses,theCompanyisGrowingRapidlyThroughAcquisitions(I)
  2015-01-30 提供機構：FISCO 作者：FISCO 點閱次數：16   

VT Holdings <7593> is a
pure holding company that has 27 operational subsidiaries and 9 affiliates. In
the fiscal year through March 2014, i.e., in FY3/14, the company derived 96.7%
of its total consolidated net sales from automobile businesses, including the
sale of new and used autos, the provision of automotive services, and car
rental services. Through a strategy of M&As, the company has grown rapidly.
Between FY3/98, immediately before its listing, and FY3/14, it increased its
net sales 18 times and its ordinary income 33 times. In VT Holdings’ financial results for 1H FY3/15 (April – September 2014) net sales were \62,670mn, up 3.7% year on year
(YoY), operating income was \2,840mn, down 29.8% YoY, ordinary income was
2,888mn, down 26.8% YoY, and net income was 2,076mn, down 3.9% YoY. The main
factors driving down profits were a decline in gross margins in the used car
business due to a deterioration in the used car market in Japan and lackluster
performance in the automotive services business due to the effects of the
statutory vehicle inspection cycle. In the outlook for full-year
results in FY3/15, the company is forecasting net sales of \141,000mn, up 6.3%
YoY, operating income of 8,000mn, down 20.7% YoY, ordinary income of \7,900mn,
down 20.8% YoY, and net income of \4,800mn, down 6.4% YoY. While net sales
forecasts were revised upward due to the contribution from a newly acquired
subsidiary, profits were revised downward to reflect actual performance during
1H. However, since the revision has been very conservative, projected results
are not expected to be revised any further downward. The company’s medium-term goals are a consolidated ordinary income margin of
8% or more and an equity ratio of 40% or more, versus a ordinary income margin
of 7.5% and an equity ratio of 33.9% in FY3/14. These goals appear achievable
soon. The company is solicitous of its shareholders. In April 2014, it made a
3-for-1 share split to increase the market liquidity of its shares, and it has
announced an increase of its dividend payout ratio to 30%. As its profits
increase, it may increase its dividend per share.◆Corporate Overview Since Listing, Company Has Increased Net Sales by 18
Times and Ordinary Income by 33 Times through M&As (1) Corporate History VT Holdings is a pure holding
company with has 27 operational subsidiaries and 9 affiliates. As detailed in
the table below, the company started out as Honda Verno Tokai Co., Ltd., which
was the last Honda Motor Co., Ltd. <7267.> dealership handling the Verno
brand. In September 1998, the company listed its shares on the Second Section
of the Nagoya Stock Exchange for the purpose of growing through an M&A
strategy. Thereafter, the company conducted M&As with other automobile
dealerships almost annually, building a nationwide network of outstandingly
profitable dealerships. Between FY3/98 and FY3/14, it increased its sales by 18
times and its recurring profit by 33 times. Today, VT Holdings deals in
Nissan Motor Co., Ltd., <7201> cars and other brands, and has expanded
its operations independently of any single automobile manufacturer. It provides
a full line of automotive services, with a nationwide car rental business, a
used car export business, and overseas car dealerships that are expanding
through M&As.Main Subsidiaries are Six Nissan and Honda Dealerships (2) Description of Business ○Overview of
Subsidiaries The company is a holding
company, and actual operations are therefore conducted by its subsidiaries. The
company’s main division is the automotive
division, which comprises auto dealerships, rent-a-car services, and automobile
exporting. The company also has a housing division. The subsidiaries and their
main business activities are described below, however six subsidiaries, Honda
Cars Tokai, Nagano Nissan Auto, Shizuoka Nissan Auto Sales, Mikawa Nissan
Motor, Nissan Satio Saitama, and Nissan Satio Nara supply 69.6% of total
consolidated sales. The profits of these subsidiaries greatly influence the
company’s overall profits.○Sales and gross profit
by division VT Holdings has the following
main divisions ・ New car sales: Sale of
new cars primarily Honda and Nissan, as well as overseas brands, and sales of
related products, etc. ・ Used car sales:
Purchase and sales of used cars. This division also sells trade-in vehicles
generated from new car sales. ・ Automotive services:
Inspection, statutory inspection, body-work, painting, and other services. As
described below, this segment has a high profit margin. Honda dealers do not
have body shops, but most Nissan dealers have them. ・ Rent-a-car: This
service is operated by subsidiary J-net Rental & Lease. ・ Housing: Sales of
stand-alone homes, construction subcontracting, etc. ・ Other: Sales by the
administrative divisions and other divisions of all Group companies, and other
operations. As detailed in the pie charts
below, in 1H FY3/15, sales of new cars provided 43.3% of total net sales, sales
of used cars supplied 29.2%, automotive services accounted for 19.9%,
rent-a-car services provided 4.2%, and the housing and other businesses
supplied 3.3%. In terms of gross profit contributions, new car sales provided
34.6%, used car sales 16.5%, automotive service 37.3%, the rent-a-car business
9.0%, and the housing and other businesses 2.5%, clearly showing the high
profit margin of services.Aggressive M&A Strategy and Strong Expertise in
Profitability Improvement (3) Distinctive Traits and
Strengths As stated above, the company’s main business is automotive business, centered on the sale of
new cars. However, in the new car segment the timing of the market launch of
new cars and their cost to the company are determined by car manufacturers.
Thus, it is difficult for new car dealers to differentiate themselves from
competitors. Nonetheless, VT Holdings has distinguished itself with the
following traits and strengths. ○High profitability
derived from high-quality services and rigorous efficiency The cost of purchasing a new
car from a manufacturer is essentially fixed for all dealers. Thus, the gross
profit dealers earn is limited. VT Holdings increases its profitability by
proposing sales of accessories and services that satisfy individual customers’ needs and lifestyles.Another distinctive trait of
VT Holdings is the rigorous improvement of efficiency in its automobile service
business. This business strives to find ways to eliminate unnecessary waste as
much as possible in assigning workers to automobile body repair shops and in
fixing work shifts at these shops. Used cars purchased as trade-ins from buyers
of new cars are auctioned immediately, thereby reducing the labor cost required
to store them. This detailed attention to efficiency improves profitability. VT Holdings is more profitable
than most of its rivals. For example, of the 123 Nissan dealerships in Japan,
the top four in terms of operating profit margin belong to VT Holdings (Nagano
Nissan Auto, Shizuoka Nissan Auto Sales, Mikawa Nissan Motor, and Nissan Satio
Saitama). According to VT Holdings,
based on performance figures for FY3/14, it ranks thirteenth among car
dealerships in Japan in terms of net sales but second in terms of ordinary
income. The top two in sales are Tokyo Toyopet Motor Sales Co., Ltd. and Aichi
Toyota Motor Co., Ltd. According to a market research company,* VT Holdings
ranks 49th among world car dealers in terms of net sales but 22nd in terms of
pretax profit. *UK
Plimsoll Publishing Limited ○Stable profit base Another distinctive feature of
VT Holdings is that its businesses are dispersed. For example, a large portion
of sales in the new car business comes from the sale of Nissan automobiles, but
the business also sells Honda automobiles and non-Japanese automobiles. Thus,
its sales and profits are not strongly dependent on a single automobile
manufacturer. Furthermore, the automotive business is dispersed, comprising
sales of new cars, sales of used cars (for which the market differs totally
from the market for new cars), automotive services, and rent-a-car services.
Thus, the sales and profits of the automotive business do not vary greatly with
the popularity of new car brands.This means that the results of
VT Holdings do not change as much as those of other automobile dealers, which
are highly dependent on new cars. In other words, VT Holdings has a more stable
profit base. The company uses a “base revenue cover ratio” to show the independence of its profits from the new car sales
business. The base revenue cover ratio is the gross profits earned from
businesses other than selling new cars divided by sales and administrative
expenses. In other words, VT Holdings is focusing on the index to achieve a
corporate framework that will not make a loss even if it does not sell any new
cars, since the costs are covered by businesses other than new car sales, which
are heavily influenced by external factors such as the new model sales cycle
determined by car manufacturers. The average base revenue cover
ratio for VT Holdings’ six main subsidiaries for 1H
FY3/15 is 98.5%, indicating that the company has established a strong profit
base as always. This stable profit base underlies another company strength:
growth through a strategy of aggressive M&As and other such means. ○High growth and
aggressive management strategy VT Holdings was able to
increase its net sales by 18 times and its ordinary income by 33 times since
listing because of its aggressive management strategy, especially in conducting
M&As and implementing rigorous measures to improve efficiency. The company
has not purchased just any other company in distress. Instead, it has bought
other companies in the same industry or a related industry which have suffered
a large drop in enterprise value due to an erroneous business plan or financial
strategy. It has then restructured the acquired companies to raise their added
value. VT Holdings stands out among
Japanese automotive companies in its aggressive use of M&As. It also
decides its acquisition targets with notable speed. However, VT Holdings’ greatest strength is its ability to restructure acquired
companies to make them profitable. For example, Nissan Satio Saitama had been a
poor performer before it became a subsidiary of VT Holdings in April 2012, but
in less than six months after being acquired, it was the top dealership of
Nissan vehicles in Japan. 報告內容僅供參考，不得作為任何投資引用之唯一依據，且其投資風險及決定應由投資人自行判斷並自負損益。