Nagaileben(JP-7447)TokyoStockExchangeFirstSectionQ2ResultsSteadyOverall,RemainwithinForecastRange(II)
  2015-05-19 提供機構：FISCO 作者：FISCO 點閱次數：5   

◆Earnings Trends Consolidated business results
for Q2 steady within forecast range overall (1) Summary for the Q2 of
FY8/15 ●Status of profit and
loss In the consolidated results for the Q2 FY8/15, the Company
achieved: sales of \6,480mn, a 1.0% increase y-o-y; operating profit of
\1,797mn, a 1.9% decrease y-o-y; recurring profit of \2,033mn, a 5.6% increase
y-o-y; and quarterly net profit of \1,302mn, a 3.0% increase y-o-y. Sales and
operating profit were both slightly lower than initially forecast, partly due
to somewhat lackluster performance in Q1. However, recurring profit and net
profit both surpasses the initial forecast, mainly due to gains on foreign
exchange gains. The divergence from the initial forecast was small, however,
and overall results were within the scope of the forecast.Sales were up 1.0% y-o-y, but
still came in 1.6% below plan. There were no major changes in the market
environment, and the lower-than-expected result was due to a delay in a
contract renewal . Such factors are not a cause for concern. The gross profit
margin declined to 46.6% from 46.8% in Q2 FY8/14, which reflects the gradually
emerging effect of cost increases due to the yen’s depreciation. Higher prices for raw materials and processing
fees had a negative impact of -\11mn on gross profit, while foreign exchange
rate effects reduced profit by \35mn as the yen slid from \87.4 to \91.5
against the U.S. dollar y-o-y. On the other hand, there was a positive impact
of around \43mn resulting from an increase in the ratio of overseas production,
from 42.7% to 45.2%. Selling, general and
administrative (SG&A) costs climbed 3.9% y-o-y to \1,309mn. The main factor
driving this increase was an increase in depreciation cost (\35mn) due to the
relocation to a new head office. However, the increase had been factored in
initially, and SG&A costs were actually 2.6% lower than planned. Meanwhile, the greater-than-expected increase in recurring
profit was mainly due to increases in non-operating profit, particularly
foreign exchange gains. To hedge against the effects of the yen’s depreciation on the cost of sales, the company held deposits
in U.S. dollars. The foreign exchange gain arising from these deposits
increased dramatically from \56mn in Q2 FY8/14 to \220mn. Meanwhile, in
extraordinary profit/loss, a gain on sale of fixed assets of \114mn recorded in
Q2 FY8/14 (in association with the relocation to the new head office) was not
recorded this year. As a result, the rate of increase in net profit was lower
than that of recurring profit.●Sales Breakdown by itemIn sales by item; healthcare
wear amounted to \4,011mn, a 2.5% increase y-o-y; doctor’s wear amounted to \1,046mn, a 1.7% decrease y-o-y; utility wear
amounted to 298mn, a 10.9% decrease y-o-y; patient wear amounted to \635mn, a
2.9% increase y-o-y; surgical wear amounted to \659mn, a 2.7% increase y-o-y;
shoes amounted to \77mn, a 10.6% decrease y-o-y; and other products amounted to
\110mn, a 3.5% decrease y-o-y. In the core healthcare wear segment, results came in somewhat lower
than the company’s plan, mainly reflecting
changes in renewal demand for some products and delayed recording of sales.
However, the product segment still managed to record its highest ever Q2 sales.
In doctor’s wear sales declined y-o-y because of a
high rate of growth (8.4%) in Q2 8/14, and there were no particular changes in
market trends. Utility wear recorded a significant decline in sales as the
shift away from individual supply toward shared use of items continued. Patient
wear performed strongly against growing market demand. Surgical wear also
market a steady increase in sales driven by market penetration of scrub wear
and compel packs.By region, eastern Japan sales
were \3,430mn, up 0.3% y-o-y; central Japan sales were \787mn, up 1.0%; western
Japan sales were \2,529mn, up 1.0%, and overseas sales were \92mn, up 31.5%.
All regions achieved new record high net sales. In eastern Japan, the company recovered from a delayed contract
renewal in Q1 to secure sales that were almost flat y-o-y. In central Japan,
where the overall regional scale is small, the size of each transaction has a
significant effect; however, thanks to concentrated efforts in sales promotion,
the company’s sales outperformed even the dramatic
increase recorded in Q2 FY8/14. In western Japan, the company made steady
progress in acquiring new projects; however, the overall increase was muted by
the effects of delays in renewals. Nevertheless, there are still expectations
for a recovery in the second half of the year. Overseas sales expanded
steadily, partly because of the yen’s
depreciation, however the scale is still small.Looking at sales by product,
DC brand product sales were \366mn, down 7.2% y-o-y; advanced function product
sales were \3,457mn, up 5.8%; standard function product sales were \2,617mn,
down 3.5%; and mass-produced product sales were \398mn, down 0.6%. Sales of
advanced function products, which have a comparatively high profit margin, are
expanding steadily. ●Financial position The company’s financial status has remained stable. Total assets at the end
of Q2 FY8/15 amounted to \36,715mn, a decrease of \2,435mn compared to the
previous year-end. Total current assets amounted to \27,177mn, a decrease of
\2,412mn, primarily reflecting a decrease of \3,544mn in cash and deposits and
an increase of \1,025mn in inventories. Fixed assets amounted to \9,537mn, a
decrease of \23mn. Total liabilities amounted to \3,800mn, a decrease of \668mn
compared to the previous year. Its primary causes include a decrease of \639mn
in corporate tax payable. Net assets amounted to \32,915mn, a decrease of
\1,766mn compared to the previous fiscal year-end. This was mainly caused by a
decrease of \ 452mn in retained earnings due to dividend payouts and \1,500mn
decreased due to acquisition of treasury stock. As a result of these, the
shareholders’ equity ratio was 89.6%, an increasing
from 88.6% at the previous year-end.New records for sales and
operating profit projected for FY8/15 (2) FY8/15 business results forecastFor the full-year business
results for FY8/15, the company expects to achieve \16,700mn in sales, a 3%
increase y-o-y; \4,931mn in operating profit, a 0.2% increase y-o-y; \5,088mn
in recurring profit, a 1.1 % decrease y-o-y; and \3,187mn in net profit, a 1.1%
decrease y-o-y. The sales forecast has not been revised from the forecast at
the start of the fiscal year; however, the forecasts for operating profit and
net profit have been revised downward by \75mn and \57mn, respectively, and the
forecast for recurring profit has been revised upward by \30mn. The increase in sales is
projected based on the launch of new high-value-added products in the mainstay
healthcare wear and doctor’s wear sectors, and steady
growth of patient wear and surgical wear. Further, the company continues to
focus on raising its market share in central Japan and western Japan, and plans
once again to achieve record sales and profits. Factors affecting gross profit
are expected to be increases of ¥226mn from higher sales and ¥53mn from the further expansion in the percentage of production
conducted overseas (forecast to increased from 43.1% in FY8/14 to 44.4% by
FY8/15 year-end) and decreases of ¥58mn
due to increased material and processing costs and ¥89mn due to exchange rate effects (with the yen depreciating
from an actual average rate of \88.1 to the US dollar in FY8/14 to a projected
average rate of \93.3 for FY8/15). As a result, gross profit for FY8/15 is
forecast to be ¥7,682mn (an increase of ¥96mn, or 1.3%, y-o-y), \75mn lower than the forecast at the
start of the fiscal year, mainly because of the foreign exchange rate trending
towards a weaker yen. As a result, the gross profit margin to forecast to be
46.0% (compared to 46.8% in FY8/14). While there is a concern over
cost increases due to the weak yen, it is unlikely that negative effect will
emerge all at once since the company has entered into foreign exchange forward
contracts and so forth. Even though the impact of the weak yen will gradually
surface, the company plans to partially offset the cost increase by continuing
to relocate production to a new plant as stated below. A number of general
uniform manufacturers have already raised the prices of their products, but the
company has not; therefore there is still room to improve the sales cost ratio
by raising prices in the worst case scenario. SG&A costs are forecast to
be ¥2,751mn (a 3.3% increase y-o-y),
reflecting an expected increase in depreciation costs of ¥35mn associated with the new company headquarters and ¥30mn for costs related to the company’s 100th anniversary. The y-o-y decrease in recurring profit
assumes that the foreign exchange gains (\87mn) and the gain on securities sold
(\67mn) recorded in non-operating profit in FY8/14 will decline; however, the
forecast has been revised upward by \30mn from the start of the fiscal year.
The revision reflects the gains realized on the conversion of some of the
company’s U.S. dollar deposits into yen, where
foreign exchange gains had not been factored into the initial forecast at all.
If the yen weakens further by the end of FY8/15 compared to FY8/14, it is
possible that the decline in profits will be less than anticipated.
Furthermore, since the extraordinary profit that was recorded in FY8/14 (the ¥115mn profit on the sale of the old headquarters) will not occur
in FY8/15, and revisions to the tax system are expected to increase the amount
of corporate tax payable, the forecast for net income has been revised downward
by \57mn from the forecast at start of the fiscal year, and is expected to
decline y-o-y. Breaking down the company’s net sales forecasts by item, region, and product, in net sales
forecasts by item, strong net sales are forecast for all items except for
utility wear. By region, sales are expected to increase in all regions. By
product, sales are expected to expand steadily mainly in advanced function
products.◆Mid-term Management
Plan and Outlook Targets for FY8/15 to be met
ahead of schedule, management announces a new Mid-Term Management Plan (1) Mid-term Management Plan The company had set sales of ¥16,800mn and operating profit of ¥5,100mn as the targets for FY8/16 in its Mid-Term Management
Plan. But given the strong possibility of it meeting these targets in FY8/15,
it has released new targets for the Mid-Term Management Plan for FY8/17, with
sales of ¥17,500mn and operating profit of ¥5,300mn. It plans to develop its business by implementing the
policies described below, but considering its business environment, these
targets can be considered fairly conservative and are very achievable. Stable operating environment,
aiming for record-high sales and operating profit (2) Future Business Strategies
The operating environment surrounding the company should be
favorable for some time. According to the material released by the Ministry of
Health, Labour and Welfare, the number of nurses in Japan is projected to
increase from 15.4 million in 2012 to 20.6 million in 2025. Moreover, the
number of care workers is projected to increase from 14.9 million in 2012 to as
many as 24.9 million in 2025. In this operating environment, the company plans
to achieve its Mid-Term Management Plan based on the following strategies.●Expansion in patient,
surgical & other peripheral market In its mainstay healthcare wear, the company already maintains a
high market share and can expect stable renewal demand. On the other hand, the
peripheral market for patient wear and surgical wear and others still has
development potential. The company plans to focus on expanding the peripheral
market by launching new products.●Increase market share
in western Japan By region, the company maintains a high market share in eastern
Japan, but in central Japan and western Japan, it has relatively low market
shares. In other words, these regions have potential for further market share
growth. To expand its market share, the company will not only conduct an
aggressive sales campaign, but will actively launch advanced function products
and new products.●Development and sales
of advanced function product The company is actively developing products with even greater
functionality and added value to deliver added value to markets where it is
already strong, and to serve as tools for its marketing strategy in markets
where it seeks to increase its market share. To that end, its strategy is to
collaborate more closely with material manufacturers and trading companies
while further refining its Quick Response (QR) production system to raise
customer satisfaction.●Improving gross profit
margin In the last 20 years, the
company’s gross profit margin has improved
approximately 12 percentage points (from around 35% to 47%). In the future,
although improving profitability at the same pace as before will not be easy, the
company aims to make further improvements mainly through the following
measures. The first is increased
overseas production. Currently, the company’s ratio of overseas production is still around 45.2%, which is
low when compared to other apparel manufacturers. In other words, there is
considerable room to further increase the overseas production ratio with
potential for improving profitability from expansion of overseas production.
However, the company’s policy is to not shift
domestic production at once to overseas, but rather to produce the portion of
the increased sales at overseas while maintaining domestic production volumes.
In February 2014, a new factory, which had been under construction in Java in
central Indonesia, began operation, and it is expected that by the end of 2015,
the transfer of existing production from Jakarta will have been completed. The second measure to improve
profitability is the development of high value-added products. If the
percentage of sales of products with high profit margins increases, the overall
gross profit margin will also improve. Furthermore, while there have been no
official announcements, the company continues to develop new markets, and its
plans for new markets (new products) should also contribute to improving gross
profit margins in the future. The yen’s depreciation is also a major
factor weighing down profitability. As a countermeasures to this, the company’s policy is to make active use of futures contracts to level out
the effects of exchange rate fluctuations, while using U.S. dollar deposits to
hedge against the fluctuations as much as possible.◆Shareholder Return
Policy Plan to provide steady
dividends, aiming for payout ratio of 50% The company’s shareholders’ equity ratio has reached
89.6% (Q2 FY8/15) and it is financially stable. Additionally, considering the
company’s business conditions, it seems highly
unlikely that those profits will rapidly deteriorate, so continued stable
earnings are expected. As a result, as its distribution of earnings outside the
company (particularly dividend payments) is low and profits will accumulate in
shareholders’ equity each year, return on equity (ROE)
will decline, which is to say, capital efficiency will decline. However, the
company also actively returns profits to shareholders as detailed below, and in
this way it maintains a high ROE (9.5%, FY8/14 result). The company has demonstrated a policy of stable dividend
payments and has targeted a dividend payout ratio of 50% (nonconsolidated
basis), a high level compared to the majority of listed companies. Meanwhile
the company has flexibly made share buy-backs. Recently it conducted a share
buy-back (\1,500 per share, purchased amount: \1,500mn) through a TOB. As a
result, if the annual dividend of \50 per share is conducted as expected,
together with the share buyback, distribution outside the company will total
\3,100mn, for a total return ratio of 97.2% against the expected net profit.
Looking at the company’s total dividend, share
buybacks, dividend payout ratio, and total return ratio from FY8/01 to FY8/14,
the total dividend and dividend payout ratio have improved enormously from
\475mn and 27.4% in FY8/01 to \1,712mn and 54.4% in FY8/14. This shows that the
company is highly conscious of its shareholder returns and maintaining capital
efficiency; and thus this should be also highly regarded. 報告內容僅供參考，不得作為任何投資引用之唯一依據，且其投資風險及決定應由投資人自行判斷並自負損益。