DynamJapanHoldings(HK-06889)HongKongStockExcangeAnnouncesthechangesoftheexistingcommitmentlineintotheoneresponsivetoearthquakedisaster
  2015-02-04 提供機構：FISCO 作者：FISCO 點閱次數：21   

◆DYNAM JAPAN HOLDINGS
Co., Ltd. (06889/HK) announced that its main subsidiary DYNAM CO., Ltd. (“DYNAM”) has changed the commitment
line contract signed in March 2014 into the one responsive to earthquake
disaster. This will allow the banks to promise to implement lending promptly,
within the period and the credit line agreed beforehand to the company even
when a disaster strikes. As the group extends across
the country, it has taken the Risk Management policy, particularly measures
against earthquake risk. The Group’s
“Risk Management” consists of “Risk Control” as the measures before risk becomes obvious and “Risk Finance” as the financial arrangements
to respond to damage in the case risk becomes obvious. The Group considers
taking these two measures properly to minimize the financial impact to the
operation and to improve the corporate value. The Group enhanced the financial
preparation from the point of view of “Risk
finance”. The Group has also regarded “Crisis Management” as important together with “Risk Management”. In case of crisis, the Group
has established the framework to take proper countermeasures with priority for
prompt decision-making, information distribution and safety and security of
customers, employees and parties-in-trust in the Group’s Risk Management Committee. DYNAM
JAPAN HOLDINGS Co., Ltd. is the largest PACHINKO hall operators in Japan which
operate largest number of halls nationwide and is the second largest by revenue
in this industry. The Group’s strength and characteristics lie in its low-cost
operations worked out based on the theory of chain store operations. The Group
plans to accelerate selection of candidate land for new hall sites from the
second half of FY3/15 and to open 40 new halls until FY3/16. This would be
twice as they have now. 報告內容僅供參考，不得作為任何投資引用之唯一依據，且其投資風險及決定應由投資人自行判斷並自負損益。