OUTSOURCINGInc.(JP-2427)TokyoStockExchangeFirstSectionDrivingFasterGrowthCenteredontheEngineeringOutsourcingBusinessandtheOverseasBusiness
  2015-04-22 提供機構：FISCO 作者：FISCO 點閱次數：14   

OUTSOURCING Inc. (2427)
primarily provides staff placement and outsourcing services for factory production
lines and design, development and other processes. The Company’s core businesses are the Manufacturing Outsourcing Business and
the Engineering Outsourcing Business in Japan, which represent 42.9% and 37.1%
of net sales, respectively. Meanwhile, the Overseas Business, with 17.4% of net
sales, is currently growing as the Company’s third core business. The Company has a strong
customer base in the automobile industry, including customers such as the
Toyota Group. With customers spread out among a wide range of business sectors,
OUTSOURCING’s expansive customer base serves a
pivotal role in helping the Company to avoid risk. As staffing becomes an
increasingly key task, OUTSOURCING is leading its competitors in the sense that
it has enhanced staff capabilities and at the same time reduced advertising
costs. To achieve this, the Company has been focusing on the Professional
Employer Organization (PEO) scheme developed internally and employing every
means at its disposal including mergers and acquisitions (M&As) targeting
industry peers, taking full advantage of its own staff training centers, and
running TV commercials. In the past four years FY12/11
to FY12/14, OUTSOURCING has delivered a cumulative annual growth rate of 22.6%
in net sales. In FY12/12, Manufacturing Outsourcing Business generated 57.4% of
net sales. However, with the subsequent success of the Engineering Outsourcing
Business and diversification into the Overseas Business, the Manufacturing
Outsourcing Business’s share of net sales has been
reduced to 42.9% at present. In FY12/14, OUTSOURCING achieved record net sales
and profits, with net sales growing significantly by 25.4% year on year. Under the new medium-term business plan beginning in FY12/15,
the Company will drive faster growth centered on the Overseas Business and the
Engineering Outsourcing Business. In FY12/17, OUTSOURCING is targeting net
sales of JPY 130,000 million (versus JPY 59,421 million in FY12/14), and
operating income of JPY 8,500 million (versus JPY 2,010 million in FY12/14).
The Company plans to proactively conduct M&As to reach its targets.◆Corporate Overview Expanding business fields and the customer base in a
challenging environment, with proactive use of M&As (1) History OUTSOURCING was established in
Shizuoka City in 1997 for the purpose of undertaking outsourcing operations for
production processes. Subsequently, the business environment was impacted by
challenges such as the Lehman Brothers bankruptcy, the Great East Japan
Earthquake and the shift of production offshore due to the stronger yen.
Nevertheless, OUTSOURCING has achieved rapid growth while expanding its
business domains and customer base. The Company has achieved this growth by
making proactive use of M&As, in addition to driving organic growth. The
OUTSOURCING Group currently comprises 18 companies in Japan, including OUTSOURCING
Inc., and 25 companies overseas (as of December 31, 2014). Proactively developing the Engineering Outsourcing
Business around the Manufacturing Outsourcing Business, along with growing the
Overseas Business as a third core business (2) Business Overview The Company has two main businesses: the Manufacturing
Outsourcing Business and the Engineering Outsourcing Business. Together, these
two businesses generate 80.0% of the Group’s net sales (FY12/14), and generate most of its operating
income.In the Manufacturing
Outsourcing Business, the Group provides outsourcing and staff placement
services to fulfill outsourcing needs related to the production processes of
manufacturers of transportation equipment, electronic devices and other
products. It has been the Group’s core business since its
founding, and has continued to grow steadily in recent years, accounting for
42.9% of net sales in FY12/14. Market conditions are expected to become
increasingly challenging in this business due to the long-term trend of
production shifting offshore. The Manufacturing Outsourcing Business generated
29.1% of the Company’s operating income in FY12/14,
before adjusting for shared expenses. In the Engineering Outsourcing
Business, the Group provides outsourcing and staff placement services to
fulfill the need for outsourcing of advanced tasks in the design, development,
trial and evaluation processes of companies in a wide range of fields. These
fields include IT, transportation equipment, electronics, chemicals and pharmaceuticals
and construction. In recent years, the Group has proactively expanded this
business through M&As and other initiatives. Consequently, the Engineering
Outsourcing Business has achieved steady growth, representing 37.1% of net
sales and 70.8% of operating income in FY12/14. In the Overseas Business, the Group provides outsourcing and
staff placement services, led by its subsidiary OS International Co., Ltd., to
fulfill outsourcing needs primarily in the mass production and R&D
divisions of Japanese companies’ overseas sites. It is
currently growing as the Group’s third core business.
Although net sales in the Overseas Business had grown to 17.4% of the Group’s net sales in FY12/14, earnings have been heavily impacted by
fixed costs. Consequently, the Overseas Business accounted for only a 4.3%
share of operating income in FY12/14, making only a small contribution to
earnings.Provide customized staffing proposals by getting involved
from the planning stage for factory lines (3) Business Environment and
OUTSOURCING’s Business Model The outsourcing business,
which targets customers in the manufacturing sector, is impacted significantly
by the external environment. When corporate customers face downturns in
economic conditions or corporate earnings, their first option is to terminate
staff placement and outsourcing agreements. The size of the market also varies
depending on government policies and regulations, such as amendments to the
Worker Dispatching Act. From the standpoint of competition, the outsourcing
business has low barriers to entry because it requires only a small initial
investment. Therefore, the market is crowded with numerous competitors, ranging
from major staffing companies such as Recruit Holdings Co., Ltd. (6098) and
Temp Holdings Co., Ltd. (2181), to local firms. When rival companies are vying
for the same account, price competition takes over and profits are squeezed. In
this unstable and fiercely competitive market, OUTSOURCING has established
unique strengths. The following is an outline of the Group’s flow of business. The first stage of business is to win
staffing requests from client companies. In a market teeming with rivals, the
Group excels at providing customized staffing proposals made possible by
getting involved in the planning stages of clients’ factory lines. This approach has helped the Group to avoid
price competition. It also has a strong customer base in the automobile
industry, particularly the Toyota Group (7203), and has been able to win steady
orders. The second stage of business is to recruit and hire staff. In the
stage, success hinges on how effectively the Group is able to attract people.
The Company’s strength is its brand power, which is
supported mainly by TV commercials and its listing on the First Section of the
Tokyo Stock Exchange. The third stage is to send and replace staff. As contract
periods become shorter, the key is to be able to flexibly match human resources
and work. Over the years, the Company has steadily diversified its portfolio of
client companies across many different business sectors. Because the Company
also has staff that have work experience spanning multiple business sectors,
OUTSOURCING is able to shift personnel across different positions in a timely
manner.◆Business Performance Trends Net sales and earnings reached all-time highs in FY12/14 (1) Full-year business
performance trends for FY12/14 Looking at the Group’s
full-year consolidated business performance in FY12/14, net sales and earnings
reached all-time highs for the fiscal year. Net sales were JPY 59,421 million
(up 25.4% yoy), operating income was JPY 2,010 million (up 67.1 % yoy),
ordinary income was JPY 2,197 million (up 61.9% yoy) and net income was JPY
1,316 million (up 17.3% yoy). Looking more closely at net sales, the
Engineering Outsourcing Business posted higher sales primarily to the IT sector
and the transportation equipment sector, while sales in the Manufacturing
Outsourcing Business were largely in line with forecast. In the Overseas
Business, sales rose by roughly JPY 3,000 million yoy, which was lower than
initially forecast, partly due to the impact of a coup in Thailand and
demonstrations in Hong Kong and Vietnam. Turning to operating income, the
operating income margin improved owing to reduced SG&A expenses in step
with sales growth, while the Group secured a gross margin of 20.1%. By business
segment, the Group delivered higher earnings in all segments other than the
Administrative Outsourcing Business. Notably, in the Engineering Outsourcing
Business, the Group significantly increased net sales by 29.0% yoy, marking a
major contribution to Group-wide earnings growth.Improving financial stability and profitability while
rapidly expanding business (2) Financial condition The following table shows the
Group’s financial condition as of December 31,
2014. Total assets amounted to JPY 24,132 million, an increase of JPY 3,789
million from previous fiscal year-end. This was mainly due to an increase of
JPY 1,728 million in notes and accounts receivable – trade, which reflected acquisitions of subsidiaries’ shares and business expansion. In addition, non-current assets
rose JPY 844 million, mainly due to an increase in goodwill upon acquiring
subsidiaries’ shares. Meanwhile, total liabilities
were JPY 16,563 million, up JPY 2,135 million from the previous fiscal
year-end. This was mainly due to an increase of JPY 2,963 million in current
liabilities, which reflected an increase in accounts payable - other due to
acquisitions of subsidiaries’ shares and business
expansion. Non-current liabilities decreased JPY 827 million due to the
repayment of long-term loans payable. Looking at key financial indicators, the equity ratio increased
from the previous fiscal year-end, and the interest-bearing debt ratio fell
below 100%. We applaud the Group for improving financial stability and
profitability, while rapidly expanding business.Significant earnings growth projected in FY12/15, based
on higher net sales and reduced SG&A expenses (3) Outlook for FY12/15 In terms of the full-year
outlook for FY12/15, the Group is forecasting net sales of JPY 74,000 million
(up 24.5% yoy), operating income of JPY 3,100 million (up 54.2% yoy), ordinary
income of JPY 3,000 million (up 36.5% yoy), and net income of JPY 1,620 million
(up 23.1% yoy). The Group plans to drive growth in each of its core businesses.
In the Engineering Outsourcing Business, the Group plans to expand business
volume centered on the IT and construction fields. In the Overseas Business,
the Group plans to achieve substantial growth by strengthening its hand in
current business regions and by expanding into new regions. The Group is also
projecting a large increase in operating income based on steady sales growth
and a reduced SG&A expenses ratio. ◆Growth strategies Formulate and execute a medium-term business plan ending
FY12/17 (1) Medium-term business plan The Group has formulated and is currently executing a three-year
medium-term business plan running from FY12/15 to FY12/17. For FY12/17, the
Group is targeting net sales of JPY 130,000 million and operating income of JPY
8,500 million, plus an operating income margin of 6.5%. Therefore, the Group is
planning to increase net sales by 2.2 times, operating income by 4.2 times and
the operating income margin by 3.1 percentage points versus FY12/14. If it
successfully achieves these targets, the Group will have significantly enhanced
its financial position.Under the new medium-term
business plan, the Group has embraced “Vector
to the New Paradigm” as its vision statement.
Guided by this vision, the Group plans to shift to new business domains. In
Japan, new business domains refer to operations in the Engineering Outsourcing
Business primarily targeting the IT industry and the civil engineering and
construction industry. In the Overseas Business, new business domains refer to
the Americas and Europe, joining Asia where the Group is already active. In
terms of business expansion methods, the Group will make use of methods that
challenge conventional notions, including more aggressive M&As, PEO schemes
(noted later), intern programs and operation of IT schools. The PEO scheme: the basic strategy for the Manufacturing
Outsourcing Business in Japan (2) Strategy for the
Manufacturing Outsourcing Business From a medium- to long-term perspective, the manufacturing
outsourcing market is expected to contract as Japanese manufacturers are shift
production offshore, and the country’s
population continues to decline. In this environment, the Group has adopted the
basic strategy of fencing in manufacturers through the Professional Employer
Organization (PEO) scheme. Under the PEO scheme, a PEO will hire workers
recruited by manufacturers as its own employees, and will “lease back” those employees to its client
companies. The scheme provides significant benefits to client companies by
reducing their personnel administration workload and ensuring the stable
assignment of temporary workers who are well versed in manufacturing
operations. The PEO scheme already has 87 member manufacturers and 1,127
recruited workers (as of December 31, 2014). In three years, the Group plans to
increase the number of member manufacturers to 335 and the number of workers at
sites to 10,000.High growth potential in the IT and civil engineering and
construction industries in the Engineering Outsourcing Business (3) Strategy for the
Engineering Outsourcing Business The market for engineering
outsourcing services in Japan continues to offer stable growth prospects.
Notably, the IT and the civil engineering and construction industries have high
growth potential. Considering that filling staffing shortfalls is a crucial
priority for these industries, there is a compelling need for outsourcing
services. Provided that the Group’s initiatives to secure staff
continue to function effectively, the Group should be able to significantly
expand the Engineering Outsourcing Business. In the IT industry, the future market landscape will be shaped
by the following trends: (a) backbone systems upgrades at megabanks, (b)
systems upgrades and cloud platform transition at leading firms, (c) the rapid
emergence of the Internet of Things (IoT), and (d) entry into the business
analytics market using big data. The Group seeks to use every means at its
disposal to secure staff. Notably, the Group operates IT schools that have
already produced over 50,000 graduates.In the civil engineering and construction industry, the Group
expects medium- to long-term demand to be generated from the following sources:
(a) the rebuilding and restoration of houses for urban renewal, (b) the 2020
Tokyo Olympics and Paralympics, (c) the Linear Shinkansen Project, and (d) the
National Resilience Initiative. In this industry, the Group plans to expand its
business performance by proactively undertaking M&As. The Group expects to
see continued realignment of middle-tier companies and SMEs in the industry for
various reasons, such as business successions or the spin-off of subsidiaries.Planned expansion to the Americas and Europe in the
Overseas Business (4) Strategy for the Overseas
Business In the Overseas Business, the Group plans to significantly
increase net sales from JPY 10,346 million in FY12/14 to JPY 41,600 million in
FY12/17. Until now, the Group has expanded business overseas primarily in Asia.
Looking ahead, the Group plans to expand business in new areas, namely the
Americas and Europe. The market for temporary staffing services in the Americas
and Europe is much larger than in Japan. It is about 3.9 times bigger based on
net sales and about 7.9 times larger based on the number of temporarily placed
staff. Going forward, the Americas and Europe offer prospects for sustained
growth based on projected population growth, with a population growth rate of
20.8% forecast in the Americas and Europe from 2013 to 2050. The Group will
expand its business by combining M&As and organic growth. Although it is
difficult to tell whether the Group will achieve its M&A ambitions, the
probability of success should increase if the strong ties between OUTSOURCING
and Japanese companies appear attractive to the acquisition target. The Group
currently has a relatively low, 0.8% operating income margin in the Overseas
Business (FY12/14). If the Group makes steady progress on expanding its business,
its fixed cost burden should be reduced, and profit margins should increase to
largely the same level as in domestic businesses.The quantitative targets of
the medium-term business plan are extremely ambitious, and naturally, the Group
faces risks in the course of achieving them. Examples include the risks of an
economic recession and intensified competition due to amended laws, the risk of
not finding suitable M&A candidates, and management risks associated with
overseas companies obtained via M&As. On the other hand, the Group’s track record of business diversification and experience
derived from numerous M&As are positive factors that will be brought to
bear on the Group’s success going forward.
Indeed, this will be a crucial factor in determining whether the Group will be
able to shift to a “new paradigm” by transforming itself into a truly global corporation. ◆Shareholder return policy Raise the dividend payout ratio to 30% from FY12/14 Until FY12/13, the Group had
set the dividend payout ratio at 10%, in principle, in order to allocate
profits to fund investments in growing the Group’s market share. From FY12/14, the Group has determined that it
has successfully established a solid foundation for growing its market share to
a certain extent. Accordingly, the Group has now increased the dividend payout
ratio to 30%, in principle. Consequently, the Group has set an annual dividend
for FY12/14 of JPY 35 per share, comprising an interim dividend of JPY 8 per
share (commemorative dividend marking the 10th anniversary of stock listing)
and a year-end dividend of JPY 27 per share. In FY12/15, the Group expects to
maintain this level of dividend. It is forecasting an annual dividend of JPY 35
per share for FY12/15. As for shareholder benefits, the Group distributes QUO cards to
its shareholders. The Group distributes QUO cards with a value between JPY
2,000 and JPY 4,000 according to the number of shares held by shareholders who
hold 100 or more shares and are listed or recorded on the shareholder register
as of December 31. 報告內容僅供參考，不得作為任何投資引用之唯一依據，且其投資風險及決定應由投資人自行判斷並自負損益。