EstoreCorporation(JP-4304)JASDAQDrivingFurtherExpansionandHigherProfitabilityThroughaComprehensiveeCommerceSupportProducerStrategy(I)
  2015-03-12 提供機構：FISCO 作者：FISCO 點閱次數：16   

Estore Corporation (4304) has
attained growth by providing Application Service Provider (ASP) services designed
to support the eCommerce (EC) activities, with a focus on specialty stores such
as private shops and certain small and medium-sized retailers. These ASP
services make up the Systems Business, Estore’s core earnings driver at present. However, given the large
number of entrants into the ASP EC support service space, the earnings growth
potential for individual corporate entrants is actually slowing, despite the
high growth potential of the market as a whole. In response, Estore has
embraced a policy of enhancing its medium to long-term growth prospects by
evolving into a “Comprehensive EC Producer.” This will entail extending its operations in the EC support
field to marketing support activities, such as consulting on marketing and
providing marketing agency services. Estore has positioned the Marketing
Business as the segment responsible for developing this new business field.
Estore is currently implementing business structure reforms focused on two
priorities: (1) Structurally enhance the Systems Business and (2) Nurture the
Marketing Business. With around 50-60% of its
business structure reforms now complete, Estore has set a firm direction for
the future. In the Marketing Business, Estore has expanded its target customers
to middle-tier companies with sales of up to around \10bn. Although this target
extends beyond Estore’s existing customer base, it
is a market segment that has compelling needs for the Company’s marketing services. Estore’s Marketing Business stands out for the Company’s expertise in marketing methods specific to specialty stores
and in applying different marketing methods depending on the products handled.
The Company has amassed expertise in this area over the past 15 years. Estore
plans to drive business expansion by leveraging this expertise in the Marketing
Business. At present, competitors are unable to match Estore’s expertise in this area. Looking at business
performance in Q3 FY3/15, we note that the Systems Business is starting to show
signs of bottoming out after experiencing persistent declines in the number of
customers and sales hitherto. As the aforementioned Marketing Business comes
fully online, we expect to see a more solid turnaround in the Systems Business.
At the same time, we believe that this turnaround is a necessary precondition
for the Marketing Business to succeed. FY3/16 will be a key year for putting
the finishing touches on business structure reforms, and progress on both
businesses will be watched closely. Thereafter, Estore is expected to return to
a growth stage in terms of business performance. In the process, we believe
that Estore’s growth could accelerate in combination with initiatives such as
M&As.◆Progress on Business
Structure Reforms and Future Policies Targeting Evolution by
Capturing Synergies Between the Founding Business and the Marketing Business (1) Overview of Business
Structure Reforms Of Estore’s two business segments, the Systems Business is the core
earnings driver at present. As the Company’s founding business, the Systems Business consists of the
provision of ASP services to support EC, with a focus on specialty stores such
as private shops and certain small and medium-sized retailers. In ASP EC
Support services, there is the “specialty store” model and an opposing concept known as the “shopping mall” model, of which major
examples are Amazon and Rakuten (4755). Estore’s strengths lie in its focus on the “specialty store” model, and the expertise it
has developed over the past 15 years in EC for specialty stores. More
specifically, Estore provides individual services such as shopping cart and
settlement functions, as well as the development and operation of EC websites,
either separately or as an integrated package via the cloud. Behind the scenes,
however, Estore has developed expertise on marketing methods unique to
specialty stores and honed the application of different marketing methods for
each type of product. The core product of Estore’s
Systems Business is a comprehensive support service marketed under the product
name Shopserve. Estore is working to drive earnings growth by increasing the
number of Shopserve subscriptions. As of March 31, 2012, the number of
Shopserve subscriptions alone reached 21,340. However, Estore is working to
achieve structural improvements in terms of profitability by reshaping and
integrating ASP services, notably Shopserve. And by nurturing the Marketing
Business, its other operation, Estore has set a clear policy of evolving into a
Comprehensive EC Support Producer.Estore embarked upon this
shift in policy because of a change in the business environment faced by the
Systems Business. In other words, in the ASP EC Support service market,
competition has continued to intensify, fueled by a notable increase in the
number of competitors entering the market. In addition, the growth model for
this business is basically premised on increasing the number of subscriptions.
However, capital investment and other outlays are needed to support subscriber
growth. Therefore, Estore runs the risk of falling into a negative cycle where
cost effectiveness deteriorates as more and more investment is needed to win
new subscribers. Estore is a pioneering EC support services company, but it
undeniably faces these sorts of risks beneath the surface. On the other hand, as
mentioned above, Estore possesses a wide breadth of experience and expertise in
EC support developed by focusing on specialty stores over the past 15 years
since its founding. In addition to the Systems Business, where it has primarily
offered ASP services, Estore has built up a solid track record in the Customer
Attraction Business, another operation designed to help subscribers attract
customers to their EC websites and to help them boost their sales. The main
thrust of Estore’s business structure reforms
is to reposition the Customer Attraction Business as the Marketing Business and
to generate earnings by deepening relationships with its subscribers. The goal
is to attract even more customers to its subscribers’ EC websites and improve rates of purchase by leveraging Estore’s expertise in specialty stores. Specifically, Estore intends to
get even more closely involved with the frontlines of its subscribers’ businesses by providing consulting and marketing agency
services, with the view to providing a full-range of services encompassing
advertising agency services as necessary. The driving force behind
structural improvements in the Systems Business is simply to improve
profitability. Previously, many of Estore’s customer subscriptions were OEM
subscriptions entered into with business alliance partners at the time of
Estore’s founding under their proprietary brands. Although one issue with the
OEM subscriptions was their low profitability, they initially fulfilled the
role of underpinning Estore’s earnings in the initial founding period.
Thereafter, however, Estore established its own presence and competitiveness by
making Shopserve its core product, in tandem with steadily increasing the
number of highly profitable proprietary subscriptions. At this time, Estore has
decided to proactively dissolve these OEM subscriptions as the underlying
business alliances are now coming to an end. This forms the essence of
structural improvements in the Systems Business.Entry into the fast-growing
Internet advertising market with a unique strategy to support customers (2) Description of the
Marketing Business The aim of the Marketing
Business, a key priority for Estore, is to attract customers on behalf of
client companies and to thereby boost their sales. This is a field where Estore
has long been active. Specifically, Estore’s business to support customer attraction and sales growth can
be traced back to the launch in November 2006 of Shoppingfeed, a tool designed
to help client companies attract customers. This business fully came into its
own with the conversion in June 2011 of advertising agency Precision Marketing
Inc. into an Estore consolidated subsidiary. Precision Marketing conducts an
Internet advertising business targeting customers in fields other than
e-commerce. As part of business structure
reforms, Estore is strengthening its hand in the Marketing Business. Our
understanding is that what makes these reforms different than those in the past
is that Estore itself is carrying out the reforms. Although the details will be
discussed later, Estore has EC expertise amassed over the past 15 years as an
EC support company focused on specialty stores. By effectively utilizing this
expertise for the sake of its customers, Estore intends to help customers
attract more customers and boost their sales, but the planned course extends
beyond the advertising business carried out by its subsidiary. The Estore
Parent plans to win new customers by putting consulting and its marketing
agency services front and center, even ahead of its other services. Needless to
say, the Internet advertising agency business is positioned as a crucial means
of achieving Estore’s goals. In fact, Estore has
said that it could very well conduct an advertising agency business itself in
certain situations. In light of these differences
in approaches, Estore sometimes explains marketing operations at the Estore
Parent by referring to them as the “New Marketing Business,” thereby
distinguishing them from operations at Precision Marketing, which are referred
to as the “Existing Marketing Business.”(a) the size of the target
market and (b) the Company’s unique business strategy for
entering the market. (a) Size of the Target Market In the Marketing Business,
Estore is targeting companies with sales of around \100mn to \10bn. In
comparison with the target customers in the Systems Business, which includes
private shops and startup companies, the Marketing Business has a targeted base
of customers whose businesses are one or two orders of magnitude larger.
Because Estore has extended the scope of potential customers while focusing on
a particular type of customer, the number of customers in the Marketing
Business will obviously be smaller than in the Systems Business. However, even
after focusing on a particular type of customer, we believe that there is still
an immense number of potential customers, making the size of the market
enormous. For reference, we estimated
the number of Estore’s potential customers.
According to the “2012 Economic Census for
Business Activity” by the Ministry of Internal
Affairs and Communications, there were 4,128,215 companies in Japan. Of the
total, around 2.7 million companies fall into the category of companies with 1
to 4 employees. Assuming that the targeted companies with net sales of \100mn
to \10bn fall into the categories of companies with 10-19 employees and 300-999
employees, the number of companies in these categories would be 697,675, as
shown in Table 3. The reason we say there is an immense number of potential
customers is that we believe that Estore has in fact seen that there is a huge
number of customers, as the above statistics suggest, through its marketing and
other activities. Even with this vast potential
target customer base, the most important question is whether Estore can
actually win customers over as planned. Considering that companies with net
sales of around \10bn are different from the customer base of the Systems
Business, Estore will need to find new customers. In this regard, Estore is
strongly confident about its prospects for winning new customers, given the
strong potential demand for the Marketing Business services that Estore intends
to provide. In light of research and fact-finding inquiries we have undertaken
at Estore’s peer companies, we believe that the Company indeed makes a
persuasive case.(b) The Company’s Unique Business Strategy for Entering the Market The essence of Estore’s unique business strategy, i.e. the factors that differentiate
the Company, can be summarized in the following two points: (1) Estore is well
versed in marketing methods unique to specialty stores and in applying
different marketing methods depending on the products handled by each specialty
store based on its 15 years of experience as an EC support company, and (2)
Very few companies are able to provide consulting and agency services spanning
the whole marketing process (customer attraction, website production, e-mail
magazine initiatives, etc.), although some companies are able to provide
consulting on a specific part of the whole. Estore is one of only a handful of
companies that possesses expertise spanning the whole marketing process. Specifically, Estore analyzes
the characteristics of the products and markets of its client companies and
proactively provides consulting services on topics such as initiatives to boost
sales and how to run advertisements to this end. After the advertising is
placed, Estore analyzes the results and uses this analysis to provide in-depth
consulting that extends all the way to revising advertising methods and
modifying EC websites. Furthermore, in cases where companies other than Estore
are involved as advertising agencies, Estore also envisions serving as a
contact point with the advertising agency on behalf of the advertising manager
at the client company. These tasks are considered to be labor-intensive on-site
work, and are often undertaken by employees in the relevant departments of
client companies. By taking on this type of on-site work, Estore plans to
differentiate itself from specialized Internet advertising agencies in an
effort to increase subscriptions. Providing One-Stop Solutions
Spanning EC WebSite Development and Operation, and Internet Advertising Agency
Services (3) Sales Strategy: “Estore” as the Core Product The main thrust of the
business structure reforms advanced by Estore is to market services that are
designed to develop strong-selling online shops, not services needed to open an
online shop such as the ASP EC Support service (Shopserve). In this sense,
Estore must now market the Company itself as its “core product.” Put
differently, the Company’s core product is now “Estore” itself. The essence of
Estore is embodied by a focus on applying expertise amassed in the Systems
Business to marketing and thereby boosting the sales of client companies.It is important to note that
Estore targets different customers in the Systems Business and the Marketing Business.
Whereas most customers in the Systems Business are small and medium-sized
retailers and private shops, the main customer base of the Marketing Business
consists of middle-tier companies with net sales of \100mn to \10bn, as shown
in the diagram below. For this reason, there are limits to how far Estore can
succeed with a sales strategy premised on winning Marketing Business contracts
on top of business from existing Systems Business customers. However, winning
new customers remains vital to fulfilling Estore’s growth aspirations. In this
respect, we believe that there have long been unmet needs for the services that
Estore is trying to provide in the Marketing Business, and therefore investors
have no need to be unduly concerned about the Company’s prospects for winning
new customers in this business.As we have looked at so far,
the essence of the Company’s business structure reforms
lies in rigorously adhering to a marketing approach that promotes “Estore as the core product.” This will entail integrating the Systems Business and the
Marketing Business. At present, the Company’s management is focusing on drumming this mindset into the
frontline sales teams. At the same time, management is giving top priority to
the recruitment and training of sales representatives, even at the cost of
slowing efforts to win new customers, in order to bolster the sales teams. In
the course of recruiting new sales representatives, Estore appears to be
focusing on bringing in human resources with strong communication skills and
career backgrounds in the industries of its potential customers, rather than
emphasizing experience in the advertising agency business. We highly commend
these recruitment policies based on our belief that they make good sense in
light of Estore’s strategies. Q3 FY15/3 Business
Performance Largely in Line With Progress on Business Structure Reforms (4) Progress Update: Q3 FY15/3
Business Performance In Q3 FY3/15 (nine-month
results), sales were \4,316mn (down 0.8% y-o-y), operating profit was \473mn
(up 3.0% y-o-y), recurring profit was \474mn (up 2.8% y-o-y) and net profit was
\298mn (up 6.2% y-o-y). Comparisons against initial forecasts are not available
as Estore did not disclose its initial forecasts for Q3 FY3/15. That said,
based on Estore’s initial full-year forecasts, the seasonality of its earnings
and other factors, we believe that Estore outperformed its initial forecasts
for Q3 FY3/15. By segment, the Systems Business reported sales of \2,913mn
(down 6.6% y-o-y), operating profit of \627mnn (down 8.9% y-o-y). The Marketing
Business reported sales of \1,403mn (up 13.9% y-o-y; Existing Marketing
Business: \1,083mn and New Marketing Business of \319 million) and an operating
loss of \151mn (compared with an operating loss of \226mn in Q3 FY03/14).
Business performance was largely in line with progress on the business
structure reforms advanced by the Company.In the Systems Business, the
number of low-margin Shopserve OEM subscriptions was reduced to zero as of
March 31, 2014. In Q3 FY3/15, Estore worked to shift from quantity to quality,
or in other words to shift gears from “increasing
the number of subscriptions” to “increasing the sales of client subscribers.” As a result, sales per store increased 7% y-o-y, indicating a
steady shift to this new priority. In the Marketing Business,
Estore itself has noted that “monetization is running behind
schedule.” As Estore has explained previously, this
merely reflects the fact that the New Marketing Business was launched around
one year behind the initial schedule drawn up by Estore management. Estore
cites the time needed to prepare for marketing activities targeting
corporations as the reason for this delay. Business performance during the
nine-month period of Q3 FY3/15 seems to have progressed largely as initially
planned. The Company is said to have around several dozens of subscribing
customers in the New Marketing Business as of December 31. These customers
include large corporations. It appears that Estore has successfully developed
services, contract details and other business parameters in line with its
target business model. For example, Estore is providing marketing consulting
services to those large corporate clients. In our view, the most
commendable aspect of Estore’s business performance in Q3 FY3/15 is that the
Systems Business is showing signs of bottoming out. The Systems Business is not
only the Company’s current earnings driver, but it is also expected to remain a
crucial earnings driver alongside the Marketing Business for the foreseeable
future. Therefore, we believe that any continued decline in the number of
subscriptions in the Systems Business is a significant negative factor for the
Company. Although the number of subscriptions decreased considerably in Q3
FY3/15, Estore has successfully retained the subscribers that it considers to
be key customers. As stated earlier, Estore has set a clear policy of focusing
on finding new customers by integrating subscriptions in the Systems Business
with subscriptions in the Marketing Business. For this reason, we believe that
the bottoming out of the Systems Business, which serves as the driving force
behind the Company, and success in the Marketing Business are two sides of the
same coin. That is why we believe that the confirmed bottoming out of the
Systems Business is immensely significant. 報告內容僅供參考，不得作為任何投資引用之唯一依據，且其投資風險及決定應由投資人自行判斷並自負損益。