MIROKUJYOHOSERVICE(JP-9928)TokyoStockExchangeFirstSectionAchievedrecordhighsinsalesandprofitsinFY3/15consolidatedresults
  2015-08-12 提供機構：FISCO 作者：FISCO 點閱次數：10   

Miroku
Jyoho Service Co., Ltd. <9928> (hereafter “MJS”) is a market leader in
developing and providing Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) systems, including
financial accounting and tax systems for tax accountant and CPA firms and
small/mid-sized companies. In
its consolidated financial results for FY3/15, the company achieved record
highs in sales and profits due to the expansion of ERP systems and services for
companies, with net sales up 1.4% YoY to ¥22,383mn and ordinary income up 6.8%
to ¥2,587mn. The
trend of higher sales and profits is expected to continue in FY3/16, with net
sales forecast to increase 5.4% YoY to ¥23,600mn and ordinary income 16.0% to
¥3,000mn. Anticipating the opportunity provided by the introduction of the
Social Security and Tax Number System, MJS is strengthening its efforts to
acquire new customers from among small/mid-sized companies and for cross sales
to existing customers. It is also expecting to improve profitability by
expanding software and service revenues, which have high margins among its sale
items. The
3rd Medium-Term Management Plan (three-year plan) that started from FY3/15 has
management targets of net sales of ¥26,000mn and ordinary income of ¥4,000mn
for FY3/17, the final year of the plan. In addition to achieving sustainable
growth in its existing business through developing new products and services
and strengthening its sales force, its policy is to establish an earnings
foundations from new businesses. In new businesses, the subsidiary MJS M&A Partners Co., Ltd.
that it established in September 2014 has launched a new business that supports
the business succession and revitalization of small/mid-sized companies. This
fiscal period has been positioned as the first year to construct its business
foundations and it is expected to become profitable from FY3/17 onwards. Also,
in October 2014, MJS concluded a capital and business alliance with South
Korean IT company Webcash and together they are progressing the joint
development of new products and services. MJS is aiming to achieve its
management targets for FY3/17 including the monetization of its Internet
business, primarily through the business information website, bizocean.◆Corporate Overview Long-established innovator of
financial and accounting systems for tax accountant and CPA firms and
small/mid-sized companies (1) Corporate history Since its establishment in 1977, MJS has been providing
management systems and management information services, primarily for finance
and accounting, and changing its business model in step with the times. The
company previously focused on providing data processing services at processing
centers, and developing and selling office PCs. Now, MJS develops and provides
package software and management information services. It has built up a
long-established position in the Japanese market as an innovator in developing
and providing management systems. Currently, MJS concentrates on developing services
compatible with cloud computing and multi-devices, which are a new wave in
technology.Business model leveraging
strong trust relationship with tax accountant and CPA firms (2) Operational overview MJS’s
main businesses include the development and sale of ERP (comprehensive
operations management) systems for tax accountant and CPA firms and
small/mid-sized companies, as well as the provision of services associated with
system installation, such as instructions on system settings and operations, and
network development, as well as operations, maintenance, call centers, and
other support services. MJS’s main customers are small/mid-sized companies, which are
primarily tax accountant and CPA firms and their clients. In its business for
tax accountant and CPA firms, MJS has around 8,400 user firms, representing a
share of approximately 25% of the industry. In its business for small/
mid-sized companies, there are nearly 17,000 companies that use MJS software.
Moreover, MJS also provides simplified accounting software for small businesses
via tax accountant and CPA firms, with over 30,000 users. If we consider that
the number of small- and medium-sized clients of these tax accountant and CPA
firms is in the order of 500,000, there is still significant room to exploit
this market.Improving profitability by
expanding earnings from stock-type business through new customer acquisition (3) Business trends In the last few years, MJS has focused on strengthening its
stock-type business by acquiring new customers, expanding its customer
foundations, and providing support services (including software, hardware, and
network maintenance services). As a result, its earnings continue to grow while
its profitability improves, and it has achieved record highs in four
consecutive fiscal years on an ordinary income basis.◆Financial Result Trends Achieved record highs in
sales for the first time in 15 years and for the fourth consecutive period for
profits (1) FY3/15 results overview The
consolidated financial results for FY3/15 announced on May 12 showed an
increase in both sales and profits. Net sales were up 1.4% YoY to ¥22,383mn,
operating income was up 5.6% to ¥2,524mn, ordinary income was up 6.8% to
¥2,587mn, and net income was up 26.5% to ¥1,757mn. Sales grew for products and
services for companies and a record high was achieved in net sales for the
first time in 15 years. In addition, records highs were recorded for each of
operating income, ordinary income, and net income for the fourth consecutive
fiscal year. The effects of the efforts the
company has made over the last few years for “expansion of customer base and
increase in service revenues” and “thorough management of management targets
with an awareness of the order backlog of sales” seems to have steadily
permeated into results.Sales of products and services
for companies grew following the acquisition of new customers, and as a result,
net sales continued their upward trend, increasing 1.4% YoY. Also, the gross
profit margin grew by 1.9 percentage points to 64.0% due to the increase in the
composition ratio of service revenues, which are highly profitable. The company
increased its spending on advertising, sales promotions, and educating and
training, and consequently SG&A expenses rose 1.4 percentage points to
52.7%. But despite this, because of the increase in the gross profit margin,
the operating income ratio rose 0.5 of a percentage point to 11.3%. Only net sales failed to
achieve the initial target, but this was because sales from individual
contract-based development at subsidiaries were lower than targeted. Also, the
gain on sales of investment securities of ¥291mn was recorded as extraordinary
income, and a double-digit increase in net income was achieved. Sales
for companies are growing, while the accumulation of the order backlog is also
proceeding smoothly (2)
Sales trends by customer and by product category ○System
installation contract sales by customer Net
sales from system installation contracts (the sales total for hardware,
software, and useware) declined 2.1% YoY to ¥14,229mn, the first decline in
sales in 5 fiscal years. Looking at this result by customer, although sales for
small/mid-sized companies increased 4.6% to ¥7,032mn, this was exceeded by the
declines to tax accountant and CPA firms of 4.4% to ¥4,880mn and to others
(sales for partners, subsidiaries, etc.) of 14.7% to ¥2,317mn. Looking at the breakdown for small/mid-sized companies, net
sales were up 23.2% YoY to ¥2,100mn to new customers, but were down 1.7% to
¥4,932mn to existing customers, which suggests that the acquisition of new
customers that MJS has been working on for the past few years is progressing
smoothly. It regularly conducts study meetings at its nationwide sales offices
in order to strengthen its ability to provide customers with proposals. It has
been working to improve its ability to provide proposals that match customer needs,
such as by sharing effective proposals throughout the company, and these
efforts seem to be producing results in terms of acquiring new customers.Within sales for
small/mid-sized companies, the ratio for new customers was 29.9%, up 4.5
percentage points YoY. One more indicator that the
company prioritizes is the order backlog of sales for system installation
contracts (non-consolidated). This had also increased by the end of FY3/15 to
4.2 month’s worth, up 0.4 month’s worth YoY, and it is steadily accumulating an
order backlog. The background to this seems to be that not only have sales
representatives improved their ability to manage management indicators, but
branch managers have too. Conversely, with regards to the major products for tax accountant
and CPA firms with a lifecycle of around five years, ACELINK NX-Pro is about to
enter its fourth year since its launch (April 2011), and the fact that
replacement demand has also run its course is a factor behind the decline in
sales.○Service revenues Net sales from service revenues steadily expanded, up 6.9% YoY
to ¥7,671mn. Service revenues are a stock-type business that can earn stable
income, so they have contributed to the improved stability of earnings. Looking
at the breakdown, software operations support services for small/mid-sized
companies (maintenance services) grew 10.9% to ¥3,275mn due to an increase in
new customers. Also software usage fees for small businesses (iCompass NX and
ACELINK NX, etc.), which are supplied to their client corporations of tax
accountant and CPA firms, also grew, up 18.9% to ¥848mn due to an expansion in
the number of contracted companies. Both performed strongly and exceeded their
initial targets. Meanwhile, the total maintenance service for tax accountant
and CPA firms, TVS, also benefited from new customer acquisition, with sales
rising 2.1% to ¥1,817mn.○Sales trends by product category Looking at sales tends by product category, service revenues
rose 6.9% YoY to ¥7,671mn thanks to an increase in software maintenance
contracts following the acquisition of new customers. But sales of major
software products were down 2.4% to ¥8,954mn because of declines in sales to
tax accountant and CPA firms and from individual contract-based development at
subsidiaries. Other sales increased 33.1% to ¥483mn, continuing the
double-digit growth that it achieved in the past few years. This was mainly
attributable to the popularity of the business information website, bizocean,
which achieved over 1.5 million registered members, with an attendant rise in
advertising revenues from the website. MJS operates bizocean for employees and
employers in small- and mid-sized companies and business people.Financial structure has been
improving in line with profit growth (3) Financial status Looking
at the company’s financial status at the end of FY3/15, total assets had
increased ¥287mn from the end of FY3/14 to ¥19,671mn. The main factors behind
the rise in current assets were that the increase of cash and deposits of
¥1,498mn exceeded the declines in available-for-sale securities of ¥399mn, and
in products of ¥135mn. In fixed assets, investment securities declined ¥646mn
following the sale of some shares held in a business partner, while software
assets were down ¥304mn. Meanwhile,
looking at liabilities, total liabilities were down ¥673mn from the end of
FY3/14 to ¥6,324mn, as although consumption tax payable rose ¥366mn,
interest-bearing debt, both short-and long-term declined ¥525mn, while deferred
tax liability was down ¥503mn. In net assets, total assets increased ¥961mn to
¥13,346mn, because while the valuation difference on other available-for-sales
investment securities was down ¥771mn, this was exceeded by the rise in capital
surplus of ¥1,274mn, as well as a decline in treasury shares following the
exercise of stock options (+¥486mn). Over the last several years, strong earnings growth along with
the reduction of interest-bearing debt had expanded net cash flow (cash and
deposits + short-term investment securities – interest-bearing debt) as of the
end of FY3/15 to over ¥4,000mn. Moreover, the shareholders’ equity ratio continues
to rise steadily, increasing from 59.9% at the end of FY3/13 to 67.8% as of the
end of FY3/15, showing that the company’s financial structure has been
improving in line with its profit growth.Higher sales and profits are
expected this period for the fifth consecutive period (3) Business outlook for
FY3/15 The FY3/16 consolidated business outlook is net sales up 5.4%
YoY to ¥23,600mn, operating income up 18.8% to ¥3,000mn, ordinary income up
16.0% to ¥3,000mn, and net income up 3.0% to ¥1,810mn, for the fifth
consecutive fiscal year of higher sales and profits. The operating income ratio
is also expected to rise from 11.3% in the previous fiscal year to 12.7% due to
the effects of the increased sales and the improvements to the product mix.The company is focusing its
efforts on the following three points in this period; “expanding service
revenues by actively acquiring new customers,” “providing high quality products
and services and further enhancing functions to improve the level of customer
satisfaction,” and “building and promoting the foundations for new businesses.”
○Expanding
service revenues by actively acquiring new customers Using
as an opening the Social Security and Tax Number System scheduled to be
introduced from January 2016, MJS is focusing on new customer acquisition and
cross sales to existing customers. Through the introduction of the Social
Security and Tax Number System, the work burden on companies will increase, as
for example, they will be obliged to take safety measures for the management of
individual numbers in the Social Security and Tax Number System. The company
plans to release a My Number management system targeting use with the Social
Security and Tax Number System this year in September to October, and sales of
security products are expected to expand in conjunction with this. In addition
to sales to existing customers, its strategy is to use the same product as a
hook for new customers, which should result in the acquisition of orders for
ERP systems. Also, it will continue to strengthen the MJS brand through the TV
commercials that it has been focusing on since the previous fiscal period and
also to actively conduct sales promotion activities through seminars and study
meetings. ○Providing
high quality products and services and further enhancing functions to improve
the level of customer satisfaction Amid
the continuing diversification of customer needs and the innovations in IT
technology, MJS is strengthening the foundations of its development system that
is able to continuously provide high quality products and services. It also
continues to enhance functions for existing products, including by responding
to the introduction of the Social Security and Tax Number System, the revisions
to the Electronic Document Act, and to the cloud. ○Building
and promoting the foundations for new businesses As
a new business, the subsidiary MJS M&A Partners has launched a business
providing services supporting the business succession and revitalization of
small/mid-sized companies. It is currently active primarily in the Tokyo
metropolitan area in a 6 person system, and it has already secured a number of
projects. This fiscal year has been positioned as the first year to construct
the business foundations and it is aiming to become profitable from FY3/17
onwards. Also,
the new cloud service that the company is jointly developing with Webcash*, a
South Korean company with which it concluded a capital and business alliance,
is scheduled to be launched during this fiscal period and to contribute to
results from FY3/17. These are also business models that will contribute
stock-type revenues. System
installation contracts sales are forecast to halt their decline and increase (2)
Sales forecasts by customer and by product category ○Outlook
for system installation contract sales by customer System installation contracts net sales are forecast to halt
their decline and increase 5.8% YoY to ¥15,057mn. While sales to tax accountant
and CPA firms are set to continue to fall as replacement demand declines, sales
of ERP systems for small/mid-sized companies are expected to increase by a
double-digit 16.1% though new customer acquisition. Sales via the partner
companies (indirect sales) and subsidiaries are also both forecast to increase.○Sales outlook by product category In sales by product category, main software sales are expected
to halt their decline and increase 9.3% YoY to ¥9,788mn due to the expanded
sales of ERP systems for small/mid-sized companies and the higher sales at
subsidiaries. Also, from the anticipated progress in acquiring new customers,
service revenues are forecast to steadily rise 2.6% to ¥7,872mn, while the
increased sales from the highly profitable software and service revenues will
contribute to improved profitability.◆3rd Medium-term Management Plan Pursing a growth strategy by
strengthening partner companies and initiatives for new business The
company’s management vision in its 3rd Medium-term Management Plan, which
started from FY3/15, is “Challenging the creation of new value,” and it has
positioned the three years of the plan as a startup period to a new growth
stage. MJS’s
management targets for FY3/17, the final fiscal year of the plan, are net sales
of ¥26,000mn, ordinary income of ¥4,000mn, net income of ¥2,450mn, ROE of 15%,
and an ordinary income margin of 15%. ○Expanding
business with partners The company is focusing on business expansion leveraging its
customer platform and its highly profitable businesses and is continuing to
restructure its business portfolio. In terms of its sales system, from the fact
that it has strengthened its sales force by direct sales, it is thought that it
also wants to promote the enhancement of partner companies in the future. The
company has around 400 partner companies nationwide, but sales through them
remain at a low percentage of total sales, at no more than about 5%. This is
because a majority of its partner companies are not sufficiently knowledgeable
about MJS products, which is a factor limiting their business to introductions
to the company.Therefore, in the future it is
planning initiatives for independent sales activities by partners companies,
and reforming the partner system and constructing a new educational program so
that they can link up until the conclusion of contracts. The goal is to
construct a system that will enable these companies to actively carry out sales
activities after receiving a certain level of education and training and
becoming knowledgeable about the company’s products. MJS hopes to increase
sales via partner companies by strengthening its relations with them. ○Initiatives
for new businesses The
company is also focusing its efforts on new businesses. As was described above,
the service supporting the business succession and revitalization of
small/medium-sized companies has made a smooth start and there are major
expectations for its growth in the future. Within the company’s customers, the
prospective customers are the clients of tax accountant and CPA firms that
approve the use of this service. Therefore, new projects will be preferentially
directed to the company via tax accountant and CPA firms. The company counts
among its customers 8,400 tax accountant and CPA firms, while there are more
than 500,000 small- and medium-sized companies and micro companies that are
their clients. If the company strengthens its relations with tax accountant and
CPA firms, it can be said to have extremely large growth potential. Basically,
the company stands on the sell-side in M&A negotiations, and negotiates
conditions with buyers such as financial institutions or M&A operators to
conclude contracts. It
will also focus its efforts on the Internet business. Currently, the members of
its business information website, bizocean have grown to in excess of 1.5
million people and advertising revenues have expanded to as high as around ¥400
to ¥500mn a year. The majority of its users are employees and employers in
companies and business people, and if it can develop paid-for content targeting
this group, it may achieve even greater earnings. MJS is currently at the stage
of investigating content that it expects to be profitable. If new businesses grow steadily from FY3/18 onwards, it should
have in its sights its next management targets, of net sales of ¥50 billion and
an ordinary income ratio of 30% in fiscal 2020.◆Comparative Share Price Valuation Earnings indicators compare
favorably to industry peers and feel undervalued We
conducted a comparison with respect to MJS’s share price valuation against 12
corporate peers that provide financial and accounting systems, in addition to
ERP system vendors. The company's share price has risen around 30% since the
start of the year, from around the ¥600 level to around ¥790. However, expected
PER and actual PBR were all lower than the 12-peer average, and indicators such
as ROE, ROA and dividend yield were all at high levels. Notably, compared to
major ERP system vendors, the levels of the company’s earnings indicators such
as ROE and ROA compared favorably, but PER and PBR were low. MJS’ operating results are on track to set record high profits,
and we feel there are many points on which the company should be positively
evaluated, such as projections for sustained growth; maintaining an ROE of 10%
or higher, which is viewed as a key investment criteria; and expectations for
growth in new businesses, such as business revitalization support services. 報告內容僅供參考，不得作為任何投資引用之唯一依據，且其投資風險及決定應由投資人自行判斷並自負損益。