PIPEDBITSCo.,Ltd.(JP-3831)TokyoStockExchangeFirstSectionFulfillingtheNewMid-termManagementPlanbyDeliveringSolutionstoCustomers,RegionsandSocietyasaWhole(II)
  2015-06-02 提供機構：FISCO 作者：FISCO 點閱次數：4   

◆Operating results
trends Delivered record-high
operating profit, with steady progress on HR recruitment (1) FY2/15 Results (Actual) Sales and Earnings PB’s FY2/15 results were sales of
¥3,173mn, (+26.1% YoY) operating profit of
¥625mn (+10.7% YoY), recurring profit of ¥634mn (+12.2% YoY), and net profit of ¥372mn (+8.7% YoY). In addition to year-on-year gains in both
sales and earnings, the Company delivered record-high operating profit.
However, the Company’s performance fell slightly
below its initial forecast (operating profit and recurring profit of \700mn).
Rather than reflecting weak demand, the main reason was a slight delay in
strengthening the workforce, as it took longer than anticipated to train and
assign newly recruited employees to the frontlines. The operating profit result
reflects the higher costs incurred as PB made more progress than initially
anticipated on human resources (HR) recruitment. In FY2/16, PB is expected to
make greater headway on assigning personnel recruited in FY2/15 to the
frontlines, along with an anticipated increase in new accounts. Based on this,
the Company should be able to regain lost ground in terms of its performance.
For these reasons, PB’s performance, when examined
closely, was fairly solid.Sales by segment showed sales from the Information Asset
Platform business of ¥2,627mn, the Advertising
business of ¥146mn, and the Solutions business of ¥400mn. In addition, all segments achieved operating
profitability. Operating profit by segment showed the Information Asset
Platform business with ¥596mn, the Advertising
business with ¥17mn, and the Solutions business with ¥11mn.In addition to active account numbers increasing significantly
to 10,757 (+661 YoY) as of the end of FY2/15, increases in sales in the core
Information Asset Platform business were due to the amount of monthly fees per
account rising in step with a higher number of information asset records as a
result of the provision of a wide range of services. Another factor was an
increase in the number of accounts generating large amounts of fees. Also, the
cancellation rate returned to the ordinary low level, following the resolution
of the special factors seen in FY2/15 Q3 (September to November 2014), which is
contributing to stable profits.Moreover, it has proactively recruited human resources, which as
is described below, is one of the key initiatives in its new Mid-term
Management Plan. The number of employees had increased dramatically to 260 as
of the end of FY2/15, compared with 187 at the end of the previous fiscal year.
This increase reflected the recruitment of 119 employees against the initially
planned recruitment of 90 employees. Extended HR training periods led to slower
than anticipated progress on the assignment of trained personnel to the
frontlines, and this caused delays in their contribution to earnings. In line
with these delays, sales fell slightly below the plan targets, and operating
profit was also below the plan target. However, considering that demand for PB’s services was solid, this result did not raise any concerns
about the substance of the Company’s
performance. Rather, it is commendable that earnings still rose after absorbing
the increase in operating expenses associated with such a large increase in
personnel. Looking ahead, these newly recruited personnel can be expected to
start contributing to a stronger workforce, offering strong prospects for a
dramatic positive change in earnings going forward.(Financial Position and Cash
Flows) Looking at PB’s financial position as of
February 28, 2015, total assets were ¥3,388mn
up ¥745mn from the previous fiscal year-end.
The major factors were a ¥759mn increase in fixed assets
(primarily reflecting an increase in goodwill of \144mn from the acquisition of
AsBase Inc. through a simplified stock swap, and an investment of \500mn in
Sprinklr Japan KK). Total liabilities rose ¥167mn to ¥749mn, due to a ¥167mn increase in current liabilities. Net assets rose ¥578mn to ¥2,638mn, largely due to the
recording of net profit.In terms of cash flows, operating activities provided net cash
of \562mn. Investing activities used net cash of \598mn, mainly for the
investment of \500mn in Sprinklr Japan KK. Financing activities used net cash
of \55mn. Consequently, cash and cash equivalents stood at \1,368mn as of
February 28, 2015.Steadily on track to achieve
FY2/16 targets based on a stronger workforce and robust sales inquiries (2) FY2/16 (Full-year
Forecasts) The forecasts for FY2/16, which is already underway, are for
sales of ¥4,000mn (+26.0% YoY), operating profit of
¥820mn (+31.2% YoY), recurring profit of ¥820mn (+29.2% YoY), and net profit of ¥490mn (+31.6% YoY).As noted earlier, PB’s business model is a recurring revenue model; the core PaaS
product is expected to develop further; annual account cancellation rates
remain in the order of 2-3%; and additionally, inquiries for the products are
firming. Judging from these facts, PB is highly likely to achieve its targets. As touched on earlier, in FY2/15 PB recruited a large number of
personnel in (119 employees), and these employees are already starting to
contribute on the frontlines. This factor will also boost the Company’s performance in FY2/16. Also, the Company plans to recruit
around 75 new staff members in FY2/16 (there were 260 staff members at the end
of FY2/15). The aforementioned forecasts take into account the related
personnel cost increases. Put differently, this means that the Company has
considerable latitude with respect to budgeted operating expenses. From this
perspective, barring any drastic declines in earnings, PB is highly likely to
achieve its profit targets.◆New Mid-term
Management Plan and Future Operating Strategies Capture growing demand from
the introduction of the “My Number” system by reinforcing the organization The previous Mid-term
Management Plan ended in the previous fiscal year. In response, the Company has
announced its new 2017 Mid-term Management Plan under the slogan “The 3-year revolution to become a next-generation IT vendor”. The plan’s numerical targets are sales
of ¥9,200mn (3.7 times compared with the
FY2/14 actual result), and operating profit of ¥2,800mn (5 times compared with the FY2/14 actual result). The
following three key initiatives have been adopted in order to achieve the plan’s targets. ○ Enhance the speed of
making business decisions and profitability at new businesses via the
introduction of the in-house company system ○ Expand business
through proactive M&As and alliances ○ Proactive HR recruitment and training(Introduce the in-house
company system) The in-house company system has been introduced for major new
businesses. The aim of this is to enhance the speed of making business
decisions and the profitability of new businesses, and to ensure their work
practices conform to their target industry. For example, in sales for Bireki,
which is focused on the beauty salon industry, given that most customers are
beauty salons, many beauty salon customers would have (weekly) holidays on
Tuesdays and Wednesdays. If in contrast to this, PB’s sales staff takes their (weekly) holidays on Saturdays and
Sundays, marketing efficiency will be poor. Through the in-house company
system, the in-house company for Bireki operations is able to freely select
weekly holidays and working hours, allowing marketing efficiency to be
increased. To date, the in-house company system has been introduced for Bireki,
Seijiyama, and I Love Shimokitazawa operations. But depending on the
circumstances, PB will consider introducing the in-house company system to
other businesses.PB also announced that it will
transition to a pure holding company in September 2015. In terms of the
transition method, the Company plans to set up PiPED HD, Inc. as a wholly
owning parent company through a share transfer from the current PIPED BITS Co.,
Ltd., which will thereby become a wholly owned subsidiary of the new parent
company. It seems possible that each business unit that is currently an
in-house company will become a subsidiary under the holding company in the
future. (Expand business through
proactive M&As and alliances) At PB, M&A is positioned
as a key operational strategy and it is constantly seeking candidate companies.
Even currently, it appears that PB is in the process of considering a number of
deals. PB’s M&A targets mainly fall into two
groups. The first, like AsBase Inc. which we will discuss below, are companies
that are able to provide services that PB does not currently have. By
incorporating these services into PB’s
platform, customers will be able to receive an even broader range of services.
Put differently, companies that can provide “sibling services” are candidates. The second
group targets industries that have been extremely slow to adopt IT, and
companies in those industries that may have limited IT ability but are well
versed in their industry. Tie-ups between these sorts of companies and PB will
help facilitate the adoption of IT within these industries. ○Making AsBase a
subsidiary As part of its M&A
strategy, in March 2014, PB made AsBase Inc. a 100%-owned subsidiary via a
stock swap. AsBase Inc.’s main businesses are audio
and telephone solutions (call centers, telemarketing, etc.). Given that audio
solutions are from one-to-one interactions, it has been difficult to compile
data until now, and it is a field that even PB had not been able to create.
However, by making AsBase Inc. a subsidiary, PB has been able to link audio and
telephone solutions with its flagship product SPIRAL®, and increase customer satisfaction significantly. In essence,
it has enabled a “Web+Audio” service to be provided over the cloud. One example of linking the
Internet with a call center is the case of booking hotel reservations online.
This normally requires users to input the necessary information via a keyboard
or other device. But users such as the elderly who are unfamiliar with entering
data online can instead contact a call center and communicate the required
information by voice to complete their Internet reservation. (Note: unlike the
case of simply making a reservation over the telephone, this example only
applies to reservations made over the Internet). Making AsBase Inc. a
subsidiary as noted above was not simply to boost PB’s sales and operating profit figures. Significantly, this
initiative is expected to generate additional value by capturing synergies with
the existing SPIRAL® product. Further, AsBase Inc.
is a technology development-driven company, with marketing based on outright
sales of on-premise software products. By joining the PB Group, AsBase Inc. can
now develop business on the cloud, and we may expect AsBase’s own operations to expand. ○Alliance with Sprinkler
Japan KK Similarly, as part of business expansion efforts, in January
2015 PB made an investment of \500mn in 17.5% of the shares of Sprinkler Japan
KK, the Japanese arm of U.S.-based Sprinkler Inc. Sprinkler Inc.’s core businesses consist of (1) customer experience management
services for companies seeking to use social networking services (SNS) to
perform CRM, product promotions, marketing and sales promotions, and (2) the
delivery of platforms that help those companies to enhance their business
performance through customer experience management. In Japan, more and more
companies are using SNS to expand their own businesses, whereas in the U.S. an
even larger number of companies are already using SNS for advertising and
marketing purposes. Against this backdrop, Sprinkler Inc. is playing a key role
in encouraging the use of social media by companies.PB invested in Sprinkler Japan
KK to achieve two main goals. First, PB will be able to expand its customer
base by referring the services of Spinklr Inc. to the Company’s customers. Second, PB will be able to provide even more
advanced services in the future by linking SPIRAL® and other PB services to the SNS systems of Sprinklr Inc. The
investment in Sprinklr Japan KK will not start contributing to sales
immediately. However, if companies expand their CRM activities using SNS, we
believe that the investment will eventually start to contribute positively to
PB’s earnings. (Proactive HR recruitment and
training) Prior to the current Mid-term
Management Plan, PB had advanced its previous Mid-term Management Plan with
FY2/14 as its final year. Unfortunately, PB’s results for FY2/14 fell short of the plan’s targets. PB analyzed the situation and concluded that the main
reason for this was “insufficient resources.” That is to say, although there were ample inquiries from
customers, insufficient staff to win new accounts, provide support and fulfill
other roles resulted in the loss of many accounts. Therefore, under the current
Mid-term Management Plan, PB initiated a policy to proactively recruit staff.
Accordingly, although PB had planned to recruit around 90 employees (mainly in
Sales) in FY2/15, it actually recruited 119 employees Group-wide. Additionally, after reflection
on the last Mid-term Management Plan, effort will be put into not only
recruiting numbers, but also training (education, development). Already three
sales experts are undertaking the training of new recruits as specialist
trainers and PB is aiming to rapidly increase its human resources through the
SIP (Spirer Incubation Program), which is its original training program for new
staff. In this way, it is training the “next generation of IT professionals” who will become its core staff in subsequent periods and will
help it realize its goal of being a “next
generation service vendor.” Actually, it is expected that
this strengthening of human resources will occur after 1-2 years, with it
anticipated that it will contribute to sales from 2H FY2/16. However, it is
policy at PB not to loosen the reins on HR training. It is expected that the
benefits of this policy will be realized in the final year of the Mid-term
Management Plan, FY2/17. Impact of the introduction of
the “My Number” National ID system The introduction of the so-called
“My Number” National ID system represents a seismic shift in the Company’s business landscape that will have a significant bearing on the
outlook for its future performance. The relevant bills for the “My Number” system were enacted on May
24, 2013. Currently, local governments are taking the lead in modifying IT
systems, revising various operations and performing other tasks ahead of the
notification of personal ID numbers to Japanese citizens in October 2015, and
the start of use of personal ID numbers in January 2016. In addition, national
government institutions will begin sharing personal ID number data in January
2017 and the sharing of this information will be expanded to local governments
in July 2017. Until now, Japan has used ID numbers to identify individuals in
various fields and organizations. For example, national and local governments
and other entities have used universal pension numbers for the pension system
and insurance identification numbers for long-term term care insurance. Reference
numbers have also been used for clerical purposes within local governments.
However, there have been no numbers that identify individuals across different
fields and organizations. This had made it considerably difficult to identify
an individual’s personal information as belonging to
the same person when it is managed across different fields and organizations.
In response, Japan has decided to introduce a “My Number” national ID system, assigning
to every Japanese citizen a personal ID number that can be used across
different fields and institutions. These numbers will ensure that personal
information on an individual that is held by multiple institutions can be
confirmed to belong to that same person.Notably, under the “My Number” system, ordinary companies,
in addition to national governments, local governments and various other public
institutions, will be required to manage and maintain records by linking an
employee’s personal information to his or her
personal ID number. Previously, the Act on the Protection of Personal
Information required companies to manage only their customers’ personal information. By contrast, the “My Number” system will require companies
to manage the personal numbers of all employees together with various types of
records such as wages, taxes, pension, and health insurance data. Therefore, a
large number of companies are highly likely to be compelled to overhaul or
rebuild their current IT systems for HR management, payroll and other tasks. Database management systems that facilitate integrated
management with these types of data and personal ID numbers are indeed the core
strength of PB’s mainstay product SPIRAL®. There is a high likelihood that customer inquiries for PB’s products could increase as the introduction of the “My Number” system progresses further.
Another advantage is that major corporations that have introduced on-premise
software products will need to rebuild their IT systems as a result of the “My Number” system. In the process,
considering the cost factors, these companies could shift to a cloud-based
system. At any rate, it is evident that the introduction of the “My Number” system will create demand
related to personal ID numbers for the IT industry as a whole. Against this
backdrop, PB is anticipated to derive particularly significant benefits from
this demand, and future developments will attract considerable attention.◆Supplemental
information (Main application products) Providing highly
user-friendly services to a wide range of fields spanning beauty parlors,
healthcare, architecture and politics Bireki：Released in January
2012 aimed at beauticians and beauty parlors. It is a new social service that
records and archives a photographic record of hairstyles for beauty parlor
customers, enabling communication between client companies and their users.
Previously at beauty parlors, any records retained of customer hairstyle were
all handwritten. This was transformed into a service when one of PB’s salesmen proposed retaining them as digital image data, but is
now spreading throughout the industry, centered on popular and charismatic
stylists at famous establishments. For beauty parlors, because
previous hairstyles are kept as photographs, it is possible to reproduce them
down to subtle details, enabling links to popular stylists and salons outside
the beauty parlor in question. On the beauty parlor side also, it reduces the
burden of managing hairstyle records, with a benefit being that it makes it
easier to attract and retain customers. JoyPla：A cloud format
pharmaceutical and medical supplies ordering system aimed at medical
institutions. It differs from traditional joint purchasing systems that only
allow purchasing of designated products. By using cloud and aggregating orders
from many medical institutions, it enables each medical institution to freely
select the products it needs, while maintaining trading relationships with
existing wholesalers, with a key characteristic being that users may
additionally enjoy the cost reductions from joint purchasing. Further, given
that orders to multiple wholesalers may be carried out in a single operation,
it also enables reductions in the burden associated with ordering procedures
for medical institutions. A new version of JoyPla was launched in February 2015. It comes
standard with inventory management functions that are easy for small and
medium-sized hospital to use, such as withdrawal slip and inventory processing
functions.ArchiSymphony：An application
aimed at the construction industry that was launched as a service in May 2012.
It is handled by Paperless Studio Japan Co., Ltd., which PB made a subsidiary
through an M&A, and it offers a 3-D design support service called BIM
(Building Information Modeling). It is a service that links BIM design support
software with construction materials catalogues over the cloud and that allows
BIM to be introduced without changing the existing operational flow. It may be
used for free as an electronic building materials catalogue, with downloaded
product data reflected in architectural plans. Costing calculations are also
made possible, with fees corresponding to the volume of information disclosed
being borne by the building material manufacturer. BIM (Building Information
Modeling) is a database of building attributes that adds construction and
maintenance costs, including those for materials and works as well as other
data, to completed 3-D models of buildings recreated on a computer screen.
Using this is a new construction process for the building industry, and is used
in tasks from design and construction to operation and maintenance. Although BIM has yet to fully
penetrate the Japanese market, in Singapore reportedly they have already
shifted to BIM for building certification applications up to 10,000 square meters.
Building estimation also, which is taken to be the most difficult task at a
construction site, is also being undertaken using ArchiSymphony as a form of
electronic catalogue. By using ArchiSymphony, a customer can significantly
reduce time and effort, and as a platform like a 3-D data library, it has the
hidden potential to be developed significantly in the future. Within this advance of BIM,
Paperless Studio Japan agreed to form a business tie-up with Penta-Ocean
Construction<1893> in April 2014. Moreover, Paperless Studio Japan
conducted a workshop in the “Ministry of Land,
Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism, the Impact of BIM” seminar sponsored by the Kensetsutsushin Shimbun Corporation.
In such ways, it is cementing its leadership position for consulting projects
related to BIM. For the future, Paperless Studio Japan aims to link PB’s SPIRAL® with BIM. Seijiyama：A political and election information platform was
released in March 2011. In the House of Councillors Election in July 2013, the
ban on election campaigning over the Internet (or net electioneering) was
lifted. However, the lifting of the ban does not appear to have brought
significant benefits to PB. In any event it is expected that Internet
electioneering activity will progress further, and that this will be a major
tailwind for PB, a first mover in this field. In October 2014, PB launched “Politician Profile Webpages” that allow candidates for office to share their profile,
policies, messages and other information with voters. Moreover, in March 2015,
PB began providing “Members-only Seijiyama
Services for Members of the Diet” ahead of nationwide local
elections in April 2015. The Company is focusing on increasing the number of
member politicians, in addition to encouraging voters to participate in the
political process. Future developments in this field will be watched closely. 報告內容僅供參考，不得作為任何投資引用之唯一依據，且其投資風險及決定應由投資人自行判斷並自負損益。