KENKOMayonnaiseCo.,Ltd.(JP-2915)TokyoStockExchangeFirstSectionDominantincommercial-use,Industryleaderinlong-lifesalads,eggsaladsetc.(I)
  2015-07-23 提供機構：FISCO 作者：FISCO 點閱次數：10   

KENKO Mayonnaise Co., Ltd.
<2915> (hereafter “KENKO Mayo” or “the Company”) is engaged in the production and sale of salads and
delicatessen products, mayonnaise and dressings, as well as processed egg and
other products. It has a strong position in the commercial-use market, and has
the leading market share in the “long-life salads” category at 37.4%. In the mayonnaise and dressings market, it
is second behind Kewpie <2809> with a 14.7% share. The FY3/15 consolidated
results showed steady expansion in processed egg, salad and
delicatessen-related products for convenience stores (CVS) and bakeries, with
sales up 5.3% y-o-y to ¥60,327mn, marking four
consecutive periods of increased sales, and setting a new record high. Also,
recurring profit, enjoying the impact of factors such as higher sales, lower
raw material costs and revisions in selling prices, rose 22.9% y-o-y to ¥2,776mn, a shift back to earnings growth for the first time in
two periods. The outlook for the FY3/16
consolidated results is for continued revenue and earnings growth, with sales
up 4.8% y-o-y to ¥63,200mn and recurring profit
up 8.0% y-o-y to ¥3,000mn, setting a new record
high for recurring profit for the first time in six periods. The quality of the
processed egg products at the Shizuoka Fujisan Factory, which was fully
operational from last period, has been highly rated. New customer acquisition
is proceeding steadily, and in salads and delicatessen-related items also
growth is expected, with expansion in HMR demand providing a tailwind. While
rises in raw material costs and increases in fixed costs are anticipated,
profit margins are also expected to rise due to the impact of higher revenues
and earnings, enhanced productivity at the Shizuoka Fujisan Factory and
improvements in the product mix. At the same time as announcing
results, the Company announced its new Mid-term Management Plan “KENKO Five Code 2015-2017”. Its three strategies are: (1) establishing its position as the
Leading Company in Salads, (2) to further evolve “Salad Cuisine,” and (3) to further strengthen
the management platform to proactively promote expansion into global markets.
The Company aims to achieve consolidated sales of ¥75,000mn and a recurring profit margin of 5% in the Plan’s final year, FY3/18. Further, while being conscious
of (its commitment to) a 20% payout ratio in terms of shareholder returns, the
Company aims to raise the payout ratio while continuing a stable distribution
of profits, and in FY3/16 also plans a ¥2 increase in dividends to ¥25 (a payout ratio of 20.1%). Additionally, every year the
Company presents its own products to shareholders as at the end of March, as
(another) shareholder reward.◆Company Overview Focus on commercial-use mayonnaise and dressings produces
many actual results for orders Scope of Business KENKO Mayo is a manufacturer
of foodstuffs, mainly engaged in the production and sale of salads and
delicatessen items, mayonnaise and dressings, as well as processed egg products
and other products for commercial use, undertaking operations such as the
production and sale of chilled grocery delicatessen products, and retail store
operations through subsidiaries. Looking at the (consolidated)
composition of sales by product segment in FY3/15, salads continue to have the
highest share overall at 45.2%, with mayonnaise and dressings at 27.8% and
processed egg products 25.2%. Examining the trends in the last few years we see
that the trend has been for the weighting of mayonnaise and dressings to
decline and that of processed egg products to rise. This is due to expansion in
the HMR market concentrated around CVSs, against a backdrop of demand expanding
for products including lunchboxes, bread snacks and sandwiches.Further, looking at the
(consolidated) sales composition by industry segment (client industry type), we
see that three industry segments represent almost 70% of the overall, with the
restaurant industry being 26.7%, big box retailers 23.2% and CVS 18.9%. Looking
at the trends for the past few years we see that the weighting for the
restaurant industry has been in a slight downtrend, while big box retailers and
CVS are in an uptrend. The HMR market having expanded is thought to be the
cause, against a background where, amongst other things, there are changes in
consumer lifestyles and greater participation by women in society. Looking at market share within
industries, in recent years mayonnaise and dressings have performed stably at
around 15%, maintaining its number two position in the industry. Given that it
is virtually specialized in commercial-use, while its familiarity is limited
with general consumers, in commercial-use the Company plays sparring partner to
the leading manufacturer Kewpie, with a supply track record to most of the
major restaurants and hotel chains. Meanwhile, the Company, the
pioneer of “long-life salads,” has established an industry-leading market share of over 37%
for long-life salads.Company Strengths The Company’s strength lies in management integration of production,
development and sales, including, in addition to having established nationwide
manufacturing structures that deliver stable, high quality products, having a
product development capability that meets customer needs and a meticulous sales
response capacity. High quality means not only
good taste; safety and security are also important elements. Further, for the
Company, which is focused on sales for commercial-use, the question of how it
can offer added value to customers holds an important key to expanding business
growth. The Company has taken steps to offer added value through its meticulous
response to customers, involving the segmentation of industry types and the
integration of its product marketing and development and menu development
teams. The number of product items that it develops annually exceeds 1,800,
meaning it develops five new items every day. One of the Company’s major strengths is not only offering new products, but
offering them together with menus that utilize them, which is a factor in
obtaining customer satisfaction and trust. As the graph (below) shows, since
2011, it has continued to grow at a rate exceeding the restaurant and HMR
markets thanks to the fruits of these efforts.Production Structures, Group
Subsidiaries Currently, the Company’s nationwide production system comprises seven factories
operated by the parent company and 9 factories operated by seven consolidated
subsidiaries. Subsidiaries production bases are closely linked to their
operating areas because they are the production bases for delicatessen-related
products for daily delivery to big box retailers, CVS, and other outlets. Above
all, just-in-time (JIT) response capability is essential for CVS that operate
24/7. Some of the factories therefore operate 365 days-a-year, with flexible
production systems that can quickly respond to changes in order volumes. Also, the Company’s subsidiary Salad Cafe Co., Ltd. operates specialty salad restaurants.
As of end-March 2015 there were 16 shops, mainly opened in department stores
and supermarkets.In terms of overseas
operations, the Company established a joint venture (49% equity stake) in
Indonesia with a local food producer in 2012 that began production (annual
capacity of about 4,000 tons) and sales of mayonnaise, dressings, and sauces in
Autumn 2013. This factory has obtained Halal certification, and apart from home
and commercial-use sales locally, it is engaged in the sale of liquid eggs. Locally
demand, in particular from Japanese-affiliated companies is so high that it has
to proceed with expansion of its facilities. From February 2015 the Company has
commenced exports to Japan of its “omayo” brand mayonnaise, which has received Halal certification, while
domestically it is in the process of expanding its sales channels on a number
of fronts. Because its overseas
businesses operate under equity-method affiliates, their sales are not
reflected in the Company’s consolidated sales, but are
recorded in non-operating income and expenses as equity in net income (losses)
of affiliates. They are included under Other Businesses in the consolidated
business segments.◆Results Trends Sales set a new a record high with four consecutive
periods of growth (1) Consolidated FY3/15
Financial Highlights The Company’s FY3/15 consolidated results, which were announced on May 11,
show increases in sales and earnings, with sales up 5.3% y-o-y to ¥60, 327mn, operating profit up 23.6% y-o-y to ¥3,001mn, recurring profit up 22.9% y-o-y to ¥2,776mn and net profit 29.7% to ¥1,642mn. Sales rose for a fourth consecutive period, setting a
new record high for a third consecutive period, with recurring and net profit
both posting growth for the first time in two periods. Against the Company’s plan also both sales and earnings were slightly above target,
making it we feel a sound set of results.Examining the industry trends
respectively, in Company’s main target markets
including restaurants, big box retailers and CVSs, we can see that in the
restaurant industry, family restaurants have seen increased health
consciousness and also a rise in amounts paid per customer with positive
year-on-year growth, while in the Izakaya (Japanese-style restaurant -bar) and
fast food restaurant industries customer traffic has stalled leading to
negative growth, in turn leading to slightly negative growth for the restaurant
industry overall. On the other hand, in the supermarket and CVS industries,
amidst expansion in HMR demand in both industries, the Company has succeeded in
efforts to strengthen its lunchbox and delicatessen menu product lineup,
displaying positive year-on-year growth. Looking at the Company’s sales by market, with respect to the restaurant industry,
despite sales to the fast food industry being lackluster, due to the impact of
strengthened marketing activities, including meticulous menu proposals that
business segment and industry segment teams have engaged in to date, overall
sales were on a par with those levels last year. Further, in respect of the big
box retailer and CVS industries, both saw year-on-year sales increases
exceeding 8%. Apart from processed egg products being used in many products,
with a tailwind provided by expansion in the HMR market, the main factor was
sound performance in both salads and delicatessen items. Looking at the factors behind
fluctuations in recurring profit, the main factors tending to boost earnings
were the impact of higher revenues ¥204mn,
mayonnaise and processed egg product price revisions ¥540mn, and ¥282mn as both edible oil and
egg market prices showed composure with stable, high prices. On the other hand,
factors tending to lower earnings included ¥216mn in costs incurred due to the consolidation of production
facilities, ¥179mn in increases in fixed costs, and ¥113mn in increased distribution expenses. The costs incurred in
consolidation of production facilities mean costs incurred in closing the Niiza
Factory held by subsidiary KANTOH DIET EGG Co., Ltd., consolidation of operations
in the Shizuoka Fujisan Factory and related costs, associated with the Shizuoka
Fujisan Factory, which commenced operations from April 2014 as an integrated
production facility for processed egg products, becoming fully operational (all
lines operating from October).Significant sales growth in processed egg products, with
new take-ups concentrated around CVS (2) Trends by Business Segment
○Seasoning/Processed
Food Business Sales in the seasoning and
processed food business rose 4.6% y-o-y to ¥49,733mn, with segment profit rising 25.8% y-o-y to ¥2,648mn. Looking at sales trends by
product type, we see that salads and delicatessen items performed soundly,
rising 5.6% y-o-y to ¥16,758mn (with volumes sold up
3.8%). Due to meticulous sales activities by business segment and industry
segment, long-life salads performed soundly focused on the Company’s flagship potato salad. Further, the small-package “Salad Made by a Salad Pro” salad series for big box retailers and CVS, which were
introduced for home use from 2013, also performed well.Mayonnaise and dressings
declined 1.9% y-o-y to ¥16,771mn (with volumes sold
down 3.0%), which was the only decline in sales by category. Apart from new
uptake of mayonnaise for baked bread and dressings for restaurants progressing,
the World Sauces series also steadily expanded sales through developing the
number of items in the lineup, however, the impact of the 11.0% y-o-y decline
in sales to restaurants was felt. Within the restaurant industry sales to the
family restaurant, sushi and rice-bowl subsectors grew, however, they were
unable to cover declines in the fast food and Izakaya subsectors. Processed egg products
performed well, rising 11.4% y-o-y to ¥15,115mn
(with volumes sold up 9.7%). New uptake, concentrated around CVS, for a variety
of processed products including egg salads for sandwiches and delicatessen
bakery products, thick omelettes for lunchboxes, kinshi-tamago and boiled eggs,
led to significant increases in sales. In particular, at the Shizuoka Fujisan
Factory, which commenced operations from April 2014, the Company has developed
a continuous and integrated production line from cracking the eggs to the final
processes. Since it became fully operational in H2, the new line has
contributed to earnings, for example by enhancing quality and taste markedly
compared with that of the previous line, which has helped to increase sales of
high-value-added products, as well as leading to the acquisition of customers
such as large-scale sushi chains.○Delicatessen-Related
Business In delicatessen and related
businesses, there was growth in sales but a decline in earnings, with a rise of
9.7% y-o-y to ¥9,419mn in sales, while segment profit
declined 5.6% y-o-y to ¥348mn. Apart from cut
vegetables, which are limited to the Hokkaido region and commenced from
December 2013, items including potato salad and macaroni salad for big box
retailers grew steadily, due to expansion in HMR demand. Given that the growth
rate for sales of delicatessen products in the supermarket industry showed a
rise of 6% y-o-y, we may note that the Company growth exceeded the industry
average. On the other hand, rises in
the market price of poultry eggs and the surges in Summer market vegetable
prices impacted from a profit perspective, resulting in a decline in earnings.
However, looking only at H2, sales performed well, rising 10.1% y-o-y, and
segment profit also expanded from ¥38mn
in H2 FY3/14 to ¥199mn. Moreover, the Hokkaido
cut vegetable business performed above the Company’s plan and contributed to earnings.○Other Businesses In addition to revenue from
its salad specialty shops, developed under subsidiary Salad Cafe, results in
the Other Business segment, included losses from equity in net income from
affiliates from overseas operations. Sales rose 0.1% y-o-y to ¥1,175mn, while segment losses were ¥229mn (compared to a loss of ¥216mn in the last period). The Salad Cafe business had a slight
increase in profits, however, equity in net losses from affiliates, which were
also impacted on by continued yen depreciation, rose from ¥229mn to ¥246mn. In its Chinese business,
despite losses declining by ¥39mn, due to consolidation of
business locations, the pace of improvement in revenue lagged the Company’s plan, providing an issue for further consideration in the future.
On the other hand, while the amount of losses in its Indonesian business, that
commenced operations from Autumn 2013, increased to ¥56mn in FY3/15, which was the first 12-month set of accounts,
acquisition of customers such as Halal specialty shops is proceeding steadily,
and when viewed on a half-yearly basis losses declined from ¥43mn in H1 to ¥13mn in H2, with December
being profitable on a standalone monthly basis, and profitability for full-year
FY3/16 now within sight.Growth expected in FY3/16 also, with expansion in salad
demand due to increased health consciousness (3) Results Outlook for FY3/16
Consolidated results for
FY3/16 anticipate sales up 4.8% y-o-y to ¥63,200mn, operating profit up 1.6% y-o-y to ¥3,050mn, recurring profit up 8.0% y-o-y to ¥3,000mn and net profit up 7.8% y-o-y to ¥1,770mn, with recurring profit setting a new record high for the
first time in six periods.In terms of the market
environment, the Company is expected to continue to experience tailwinds, with
increased demand for salads expected due to heightened health consciousness as
well as growing HMR demand associated with lifestyle changes. The outlook for sale by
business anticipates a 4.2% y-o-y rise in seasonings and processed foods. The
breakdown includes expectations that salads and delicatessen items will rise
6.0% y-o-y, mayonnaise and dressings 1.9% y-o-y, and processed egg products
will rise 4.5% y-o-y. In respect of salads and delicatessen items, the Company
is striving to increase sales through continuing to strengthen product series
including the World Salad series and Japanese delicatessen dishes, as well as
expanding small-package products for big box retailers and CVS. Also, in
respect of processed egg products, in addition to gains in products for CVS,
gains in sales to the restaurant industry, including conveyor-belt sushi
chains, are expected. In respect of delicatessen and
related businesses, a further high year-on-year growth rate of 7.7% is
expected. The Company expects increases in daily products for big box retailers
due to expansion in HMR demand. In respect of other businesses, sales growth of
4.3 y-o-y is expected. Growth in sales is expected due to the opening of one
new Salad Cafe shop in April (in Tachikawa City, Tokyo). Looking at factors behind
fluctuations in recurring profit, ¥397mn
from the impact of higher sales and ¥621mn
from enhanced productivity centered mainly on the Shizuoka Fujisan Factory are
the major factors tending to boost profits. On the other hand, ¥270mn from raw material cost fluctuations and ¥524mn from increased fixed and other costs, centering mainly
around staff costs, are the main factors tending to lower profits. In respect
of raw material costs, apart from high levels in poultry egg prices that have
also continued since entering this period, we feel that one factor behind cost
increases will also be the impact of yen depreciation on edible oil. Moreover,
in respect of selling price revisions, which was a factor tending to boost
profits last period, the Company’s policy in relation to core
products is to maintain them at current levels, making it neutral from the
perspective of this period’s results. Further,
non-operating income is expected to improve ¥170mn y-o-y, however, the main factor behind this is a reduction
in losses from equity in net income of affiliates. 報告內容僅供參考，不得作為任何投資引用之唯一依據，且其投資風險及決定應由投資人自行判斷並自負損益。