DVxInc.(JP-3079)TokyoStockExchangeFirstSectionReachesNewRecordHighinQ2FY3/15,IncreasingMarketSharebyStrongTechnicalSalesSupport(II)
  2015-01-16 提供機構：FISCO 作者：FISCO 點閱次數：6   

Assets increased due to sales increase; debt-equity ratio
remained at low level (2) Financial Status and
Management Index The following table shows the
Company’s financial status as of the end of
September 2014. Total assets amounted to ¥12,269mn, an increase of ¥944mn y-o-y. Major variable factors are an increase of ¥524mn in accounts receivable and an increase of ¥366mn in inventory as a result of an increase in sales up to the
end of September. On the other hand, total
liabilities amounted to ¥7,766mn, an increase of ¥642mn y-o-y. Main factor is an increase of ¥543mn in trade payables as a result of an increase in purchases.
Net assets amounted to ¥4,503mn, an increase of ¥301mn y-o-y as a result of an increase in retained earnings. In terms of management index, while equity ratio, which
indicates safety, accounting for 36.7% slightly declined y-o-y due to an
increase in assets as a result of an increase in sales, trends over the last
few years show a clear uptrend. As debt-equity ratio accounted for 1.3%,
remaining at low level, the Company’s
financial health is sound. In terms of profitability index, operating profit
margin accounted for approximately 5.0%, remaining stable. ROE and ROA also
steadily maintain at high levels. It is noteworthy that ROE, an important
screening index for institutional investors, maintains at 20%, which is
considered good.Net sales to increase in 28 consecutive periods;
operating income expected to reach record high (3) Achievement Forecast for
FY3/15 Net sales is expected to be ¥27,583mn, an increase of 4.4% y-o-y; operating income is
expected to be ¥1,334mn, an increase of 2.9% y-o-y;
recurring profit is expected to be ¥1,333mn,
an increase of 1.7%; net income is expected to be ¥838mn, an increase of 6.4%, for FY3/15. The net sales is
expected to increase in 28 consecutive periods, and the operating income is
expected to reach a record high. While achievement rate up to Q2 accounted for
51.5% in net sales and 53.7% in operating income, exceeding the average over
the most recent three years (net sales, 48%; operating income, 50%)
respectively, the Company has maintained its original forecast due to an
increase of ¥100mn from the first half period in
clinical trial expenses as well as remaining currency exchange fluctuation risk
in the second half period. However, the Company’s current sales remains steadily strong, and, if the exchange
rates remained in the range of ¥115/dollar, while losses could
be offset by increased revenue, the original forecast could more or less be
exceeded. As for net sales forecast by
segment, arrhythmia business is expected to be ¥22,510mn, an increase of 4.2% y-o-y; ischemia business is
expected to be ¥4,311mn, an increase of 3.4% y-o-y; and “others” segment is expected to be ¥761mn, an increase of18.3% y-o-y. In the arrhythmia business, an
increase in sales of its principal products is expected due to continuously
increasing target patients and its enhanced sales force. In normal years, the
net sales increases slightly more in the second half period. If the trend
continues, it is likely that the original forecast will be exceeded. In the ischemia business, a steady increase in demand for
coronary catheters is expected, and growth in sales of other products including
coronary artery stents is expected to continue. A total of 67 units of excimer
laser angioplasty system are currently introduced to medical facilities
nationwide. As there are 350 target medical facilities available across the
country with no competing manufactures, its future trend should be observed.
The main device is highly priced and has a great deal of impact sales. However,
the downside is that there is an overwhelming shortage of doctors who know how
to use the device. The Company is looking to steadily increase the sales of the
device while providing workshops to increase the number of doctors with skills
to operate the device. The increased adoption of the device will lead to an
increase in sales of its related-catheters.The laser catheter for
treatment of lower peripheral artery, whose clinical trial was initiated in
April 2014, is a treatment mainly targeted to obstructive arteriosclerosis; the
number of patients with obstructive arteriosclerosis has been increasing
steadily over the last few years. As mentioned above, in the first half period,
the trial was delayed for 3 months because of shortage of subject patients. The
trial is scheduled to complete within the second half period, and, if
progressed smoothly, the Company will obtain approval for manufacturing and
marketing and launch the product by 2016. The device is currently being used
for cardiac lead removal*1 and
coronary artery angioplasty*2.
If approved for NHI coverage for the treatment of lower peripheral artery, it
is expected that demand of the medical facilities for the excimer laser system
will increase. Wider adoption of coronary artery angioplasty by the excimer
laser system is expected, as the interest of the device is heightened in the
therapy of acute myocardial infarction of whom over 43,000 people die yearly,
and also in recurrence therapy for narrowing and embolism after stent
placement. There is a risk of amputation in patients with obstructive
arteriosclerosis if the condition is worsened, and patients with diabetes are
more prone to the disease. For this reason, in the US, the treatment of lower
peripheral artery is the most common treatment of all three. It is highly
probable that the number of patients with obstructive arteriosclerosis will
also increase in Japan, and thus demand for the treatment of lower peripheral
artery is expected to increase.◆Medium/Long Term Strategy Promoting to Develop Nationwide Distributorship and
Explore New Products (1) Medium Term Strategy The Company released a medium/long term management strategy in
May. First, on a medium term strategy based on a period of roughly 3 years, it
will divide its business into two categories, ”distributor business” （arrhythmia
business and other business） and “importer business” （ischemia business）, and focus its efforts to strengthen each
business portfolio.○ Distributor Business The Company will focus on
establishing a nationwide network of distributorship and expand the area of
operation. The strategy to expand its sales area starts when a doctor who is
its client gets transferred and relocates. The Company will open its new sales
office near the location where the doctor relocates to and continues its
business at a new location. In rural areas, there is no competitor who has more
sales skills, product knowledge and technical information on medical devices or
support capabilities than them, and this is how the Company expands its sales
area while it develops new customers. Although potential new areas include
Southern Kyushu, Shikoku and Japan Sea coastal area north of Fukui Prefecture
as well as Chiba Prefecture in metropolitan area, the development will be
carefully considered to suit its customers’ needs. As for market area, other than
the arrhythmia area, the Company will focus on “ischemia and neurosurgery” area. There is a neurosurgery-related department which the
Company acquired through M&A of medical trade house located in Shizuoka in
2010 but the scale of sales is not large. However, as mentioned above, sales of
ischemia and neurosurgery-related products has started show growth from this
period, and its efforts including enhancement of its sales personnel are
leading to results. The Company’s objectives include building
a solid earnings base as well as power to survive the revision of medical
treatment fee every 2 years by expanding the market area and accelerating
earnings growth by expanding market share in new sales area. In addition, it is significant
to focus on personnel training to further strengthen the Company’s technical sales capabilities, which is its forte. Since Mr.
Shigeru Chiba, formerly a director of an international medical device
manufacturer, was appointed as a vice president of the Company in April 2013,
he has led the Company’s training programs that are
now more focused on practical role playing, and they are already showing the
results on the sales front. ○Import Exclusive Agency
Business For the import exclusive
agency business, the Company further continues to explore new products in order
to expand the product pipeline in a more aggressive manner. Vice president has
directly organized and led a team. By skillfully leveraging his overseas
network he has built over the years of working at an international medical
device manufacturer, he explores new products while accommodating the needs of
the Company’s sales personnel on the site. Targets
must be domestically marketable, have no competition or have potential for high
market share upon launching and not compete with the products of the Company’s existing suppliers. Aggressively expands growth, pursuing possibilities to
diversify in medical device sector (2) Long Term Vision The Company aims to become the
No. 1 medical device dealer in sales, by pursuing possibilities to further
diversify in the next decade. Its perspective also includes entering the sector
of “medical device manufacturer”. Subject area must create great synergy with its existing
businesses and be where its strengths can be put to use even as a new comer.
When entering a new area, it will take a form of acquiring an existing
manufacture through M&A, and the location of the target company will not be
limited to Japan. While the Company has no specific goals in connection with
management index, based on above medium/long term strategy, it is certain that
the Company will evolve from a company that aims for steady growth into a
company that will aggressively challenge to grow and expand. The Company is
planning to invest more management resources into its import exclusive agency
or importer business. Thus attention must be paid to its future activities.◆Shareholder Return Policy Maintains stable payout with substantial increase, based
on dividend payout ratio of 20% The Company’s dividend policy emphasizes stable dividends based on dividend
payout ratio of 20%. Over the last few years, the Company has performed stock
split, consecutive payout and enhancement of shareholder benefit, aiming to be
listed on TSE first section. The Company’s management has actively made efforts to return earnings to
shareholders. As a result, the number of shareholders has expanded ten-fold.
Since it was listed in 2007, the Company has continued to substantially
increase the payout as its operational performance grew. In this FY3/15, the
Company plans to pay an ordinary dividend of ¥15, an increase of ¥1
y-o-y, adding a commemorative dividend of ¥1 for listing on TSE first section, totaling a ¥16. For the ordinary dividend, dividend payout ratio accounts
for 20.2%, and thus if the original forecast is exceeded, it is likely that
there will be an increase in payout. As part of shareholder benefit, the Company awards Quo cards
(prepaid gift card) to its shareholders, as of the end of March (a card that is
equivalent to ¥1,000 will be awarded to those with at
least 100 shares but less than 200 shares; a card that is equivalent to ¥2,000 will be awarded to those with 200 shares or more.) A total
return, including shareholder benefit, on investment accounted for 2%. 報告內容僅供參考，不得作為任何投資引用之唯一依據，且其投資風險及決定應由投資人自行判斷並自負損益。