DVxInc.(JP-3079)TokyoStockExchangeFirstSectionReachesNewRecordHighinQ2FY3/15,IncreasingMarketSharebyStrongTechnicalSalesSupport(I)
  2015-01-16 提供機構：FISCO 作者：FISCO 點閱次數：6   

DVx Inc. <3079>
(hereafter, “DVx” or “the Company”), a sales company for medical devices mainly focused in the
area of cardiovascular diseases, rests on two pillars: its arrhythmia business
(sales agent) and its ischemia business (mainly sole import agent). With the
top market share for its arrhythmia business accounting for 40% in the Kanto
region and 19% nationally in Japan, it is expanding market share by taking full
advantage of its technical sales support capabilities. The ischemia business
sells products to medical facilities and distributors by finding non-competing
highly advanced medical devices overseas and then becoming the sole importer
with exclusive sales rights. The Company’s stock was moved to the first section of the TSE in September
2014. The Company achieved a 12.0%
increase in net sales y-o-y and a 6.3% increase in operating income y-o-y for
the cumulative second quarter of the fiscal year ending March 2015 – reaching record highs, respectively. Sales of products
including ICDs (Implantable Cardioverter Defibrillators) and electrode
catheters steadily increased in the arrhythmia business, and, in the ischemia
business, sales of excimer laser angioplasty system-related products which do
not have competing products in Japan, and balloon catheters were strong.
Although there was a slight decline in profit margin due to the weaker JPY and the
Company’s change in product mix, it was offset by
a revenue increase. The Company has maintained its
original forecast of a 4.4% increase in net sales y-o-y and a 2.9% increase in
operating income y-o-y in FY3/15. However, as the achievement rate of net sales
and operating income for the cumulative Q2 were 51.5% and 53.7%, respectively,
which were both higher than the average of the most recent three years (net
sales: 48%, operating income: 50%), a slight gain is expected. While the JPY
continues to weaken, with forward exchange contracts purchased in the amount of
one third for the second half of the current fiscal year (October 2014 to March
2015), losses will be offset by a revenue increase. The negative currency
impact amounts to ¥14mn of operating income a
year for a one-yen change against the US dollar. As its medium term strategy, the Company has set a policy to
further expand its market share in the area of arrhythmia as well as to advance
into other areas, including sales agency business, and to acquire exclusive
sales rights for medical devices manufactured overseas and will accelerate
future growth and expansion. In the medical device sales industry, where most
companies are unlisted, the Company has leveraged the brand of a TSE listed
corporation providing management transparency and aggressively recruited those
professional personnel who have personal connections with regional core
hospitals; as a result, it has already started to show a revenue increase in
this Q2. It is projected that the domestic market in which the Company operates
will be expanded and the number of patients particularly with cardiovascular
disease will continue to increase, as the aging of populations in the market is
progressing. Against the backdrop of this aging society, the Company will
continue to remain on an expansionary track with double-digit growth, taking
advantages including technical sales support capabilities and exclusive sales
rights of niche-top products.◆Company Profile DVx has achieved steady increase in its sales, income and
real dividends since its listing as a trading company specializing in medical
devices Established in 1986 as a
trading company specializing in medical devices, DVx has achieved steady
increase in its sales, income and real dividends since it was listed on JASDAQ
(currently Tokyo Stock Exchange JASDAQ Standard) in 2007. The Company’s operations are classified into three business segments:
arrhythmia business, ischemia business and others. When looking at the net
sales rate in the cumulative second quarter of FY3/15, “arrhythmia business”
and “ischemia business” account for 80.9% and 15.2%, respectively, totaling over 96%,
and this trend has remained consistent for several years. When looking at the segment income rate, the “ischemia business” accounts for 29.7%, which is
slightly higher compared to the net sales rate. The reason behind this could be
that, as it mainly sells medical devices to domestic trading companies as a
sole import agent with exclusive sales rights, the “ischemia business” has strong control over
pricing, though the Company covers marketing costs and regulatory application
fees. On the other hand, the “arrhythmia business” is based on a model that the Company sources related products
from manufactures or trading companies and sells them to medical facilities and
thus is in an environment where price competition is likely because of
competing companies dealing the same products. These environmental differences
reflect their differences in income rate.With support capabilities, the Company has received a
high number of orders from medical facilities with large numbers of medical
cases (1) “Arrhythmia Business” Principal products in the
arrhythmia business include pacemakers, ICDs (Implantable Cardioverter
Defibrillators), CRT-Ds (Cardiac Resynchronization Therapy Defibrillators),
electrode catheters for examination and ablation (myocardial ablation)
catheters. As the Company’s products not only require technical knowledge and skills but
also support capabilities, a trusting relationship between the doctors who
actually use the devices and the sales representatives in business is of
paramount importance. The key strengths of the Company are that there are quite
a few trading companies that specialize in arrhythmia-related products, and the
Company has received a high number of orders from medical facilities with large
numbers of medical cases with many well-experienced veteran sales
representatives. Moreover, its long-term good performance is also due to the
direction that Japan’s medical affairs
administration is taking to improve efficiency of medical care by centralizing
the advanced medical care into the regional core hospitals. With the top market share accounting for 40% in the Kanto region
and 19% nationally, the business expands its market share year by year while
exploring new customers (e.g., its domestic market share was 13% in FY2008). In
the most cases, opportunities to explore new customers (medical facilities) lie
where doctors (customers) are transferred. There are many doctors who wish to
continue the business relationship, and the new medical facilities that they
are transferred to are likely to become new customers. For this reason, if the
Company does not have a sales office in the region where they are transferred
to, it determines to establish a local branch office or sales office to
accommodate its customers in consideration of profitability. The Company
currently hold 11 offices located mainly in major cities as sales offices for
its arrhythmia business and is considering the possibility of creating a new
office.Products (main devises and consumables combined) with
exclusive sales rights account for over 50% market share (2) “Ischemia Business” Principal products in the
ischemia business include automatic contrast injection system (product name:
ACIST), excimer laser system and PTA balloon catheters. The Company sells these
products to medical facilities across the country as a sole importer through
its distributors. Partly because of being the sole importer, it covers the
whole country with 6 sales offices in major cities. With its market share
accounting for 50%, as well as with the market share of its consumables
accounting for over 60%, the automatic contrast injection system, whose
import/sales started in 2000, is a highly competitive product, and it is also
helping to maintain the high profit margin of the segment. The system has sold
over 500 units in its life-to-date, and its sales cycle has come full circle;
the current sales mainly comes from the replacement demand of main devices and
sales of consumables. The excimer laser system started being used widely after the
coronary catheter (for treatment of coronary artery) was approved for coverage
under NHI in July 2012, and a total of 67 has been introduced in major
hospitals throughout the country as of the end of September 2014. The range of
its applicable use under the insurance, including treatment of lower peripheral
artery, is expected to further expand. As for the PTA balloon catheters, the
Company outsources them to FILMECC CO., LTD., a wholly-owned subsidiary of
ASAHI INTECC CO., LTD. <7747>.(3) Others The “Others” segment includes businesses not included in other two main
business segments, arrhythmia and ischemia businesses, such as
neurosurgery-related and gastrointestinal system-related products, radiation
protection goods and books.◆Business Trends Reaches record high in FY3/15 Q2 with steady sales of
principal products (1) Results for the
Second-Quarter Cumulative of the FY3/15 The Company achieved ¥14,204mn
in net sales, a 12.0% increase y-o-y, ¥716mn
in operating income, a 6.3% increase y-o-y, ¥726mn in recurring profit, a 7.2% increase y-o-y, ¥462mn in quarterly net income, an 8.5% increase y-o-y, for the
second quarter cumulative period of FY3/15, showing growth in overall sales and
income. The net sales and income were both higher than originally forecasted
and achieved record highs on a half-year basis, respectively.In addition to the steady
increase in sales of its principal products in the arrhythmia segment, sales of
consumables for the excimer laser system (such as coronary catheters) and
neurosurgery-related products steadily increased in the ischemia and others
segments respectively, achieving a 3 digit increase in net sales. Operating profit margin
declined by 0.3 point y-o-y to 5.0%, and this was due to a raise of 0.5 point
in cost of sales ratio. A raise in cost to sales ratio is due to an increase in
purchasing cost of import products caused by the JPY weaken to ¥103 against the US dollar, resulting a y-o-y depreciation of
approximately ¥8, in addition to the change in product
mix. Despite a y-o-y increase of 9.5% in expenses due to an increase in labor
expenses, clinical trial expenses of ¥28mn
for a new product (laser catheter for treatment of lower peripheral artery),
expenses/ sales ratio fell by 0.3 point to 11.9% due to the revenue increase. In addition to the steady
increase in the number of sales of principal products, an increase in sales of
neurosurgery-related products and one-shot sales of large-sized medical devices
were largely the reason that sales exceeded the original forecast. As for
profit, in addition to the revenue increase, the clinical trial expenses were
slightly less than originally forecasted. This is due to a small number of
patients subjected to the clinical trial. The projected clinical trial schedule
has been delayed for approximately three months, however the Company expects no
change to its original forecast that is expected to complete the trial within
the current period, and has a product launch during FY2016. Thus the Company
forecasts for ¥160mn clinical trial expenses for the
current period. Here is an overview of the business results by segment. ○ Arrhythmia Business The arrhythmia business achieved ¥11,492mn in net sales, an 8.6% increase y-o-y, ¥1,630mn in segment income, a 7.0% increase y-o-y. As the number
of patients with cardiovascular diseases increases with the increasing aging
population, the business maintained steady growth, notably with electrode
catheters. In particular, CRT-Ds and Diagnostic Ultrasound Catheters*1 achieved ¥820mn, a 16% increase y-o-y, and ¥794mn, a 37% increase y-o-y, showing 2-digit growth,
respectively. In addition to these, a new product, Freezor Cardiac CryoAblation
Catheter*2 (launched in July 2014), which
is expected to shorten an operating time with its innovative features, has
started to contribute to the sales albeit only small amount.The segment’s profit margin declined by
0.2 point y-o-y to 14.2%. This was due to reduction of insurance reimbursement
prices of the segment’s principal products caused by
the revision of medical treatment fee conducted in April 2014. However, despite
this, the profit margin maintained at the same level due to a decrease in
purchasing costs.○ Ischemia Business The ischemia business achieved ¥2,161mn in net sales, a 17.2% increase y-o-y, and ¥712mn in segment income, an 8.7% increase y-o-y. Consumables for
Automatic Contrast Injection System “ACIST” continued to remain solid, achieving a 3% increase y-o-y, while
sales of distributor items such as coronary artery stents showed a sharp
increase, achieving a 37% increase y-o-y. Sales distribution ratio remained at
the level of approximately 35%, respectively. The main reason for this sales
increase in sales distributor business in the area of ischemia is that the
Company has leveraged the brand of a TSE listed corporation providing
management transparency in the medical device sales industry, where most
companies are unlisted, and aggressively recruited those professional personnel
who have personal connections with doctors.To add, despite the small
sales distribution ratio of approximately 7%, coronary catheters (for treatment
of coronary artery) achieved a rapid increase of 118% y-o-y. As the excimer
laser system was approved for coverage under NHI in July 2012, more medical
facilities in the country implemented the device, and the 0.9 mm version was
also newly approved for the NHI coverage in June; this led to the increase in
sales. The segment’s profit margin declined by 2.6 points y-o-y to 32.9%. As
mentioned above, this was due to the change in product mix and weakening of
JPY. The large increase in sales of distributor items such as coronary artery
stents significantly impacted the product mix. The principal products in the
ischemia segment are high in profit margin as the Company sells them as the
sole importer, while items such as coronary artery stents are equivalent to
those general distributor items, whose profit margins are almost of the same
level as the arrhythmia segment. As for exchange rates, the average currency exchange rate over
this Q2 was ¥103/dollar, a y-o-y depreciation of
approximately ¥8. A one-yen change against the US dollar
leads to a yearly cost increase of ¥14mn,
and thus the cost increase for the current cumulative Q2 is estimated to be
approximately ¥50mn, as a simple calculation would show.
However, as the fund is partly hedged through forward exchange contracts, the
actual impact is considered to be slightly less than the above amount.○ Others The “others” segment posted substantially
higher sales and profits, achieving ¥549mn
in net sales, a 109.9% increase y-o-y, and ¥58mn in segment income, a 75.3% increase y-o-y. This was due to
a spot sales of an angiography (cardiovascular X-ray photography system), a
large-sized medical device, as well as an increase in sales of
neurosurgery-related products including stents and catheters. Hiring
professional personnel also made a positive impact in the “others” segment, resulting a great
increase in sales of such neurosurgery-related products, particularly at the
Hamamatsu (Shizuoka Prefecture) and Fukuyama (Hiroshima Prefecture) branches. Segment profit margin declined by 2.1% to 10.6% y-o-y due to the
relatively low sales of neurosurgery-related products in addition to low profit
margin is sales of large-sized medical devices. The Company, however, plans to
focus more on sales of neurosurgery-related products over the medium term and
raise profit margin by expanding the products and increasing the scale of
sales. 報告內容僅供參考，不得作為任何投資引用之唯一依據，且其投資風險及決定應由投資人自行判斷並自負損益。