MeikoNetworkJapan(JP-4668)TokyoStockExchangeFirstSectionDuringQ1theCompanyProceededinLinewithitsPlanandSteadilyExpandedNewBusinesses(II)
  2015-03-09 提供機構：FISCO 作者：FISCO 點閱次數：7   

◆Financial Outlook and Future Actions The company plans to increase sales and profits in FY8/15,
and also expects to increase students for the first time in two years (1) Financial outlook for
FY8/15 Meiko Network Japan has left
its outlook for consolidated financial results for FY8/15 unchanged, projecting
net sales of ¥19,420mn, up 24.8% YOY, operating income
of ¥3,500mn, up 2.5% YOY, ordinary income of ¥3,620mn, up 2.3% YOY, and income of ¥2,260mn, up 2.7% YOY. The acquisition of, MAXIS as a
subsidiary is expected to increase sales by ¥2,998mn. Eliminating this factor, the company’s projection represents a 5.5% increase in real terms. Goodwill
amortization expenses for the above acquisition are estimated to be a little
less than ¥180mn per year (straight-line
amortization over 10 years) and the forecast for operating profit before
amortization of goodwill is an 8% increase in real terms. In sales forecasts for each
business, Meiko Gijuku directly operated business (excluding MAXIS) and
franchised schools are both expected to increase YOY by 3.4% and 4.9%
respectively. These increases are predicated on an increase of 60 schools YOY
and the company plans to continue actively opening new schools from Q2 FY8/15
onwards. This is expected to see an increase in the number of students for the
first time in two years. Success in increasing the number of students will
hinge mainly on how many new students are acquired in the school entrance
season between March and April. With regard to the preparatory school business, the number of
students is projected to continue its decline until H2 FY8/15. However, the
company has made proactive efforts, such as holding school entrance
consultation seminars and model examinations to increase its recognition level,
and these are expected to lead to an increase in student numbers from spring
onwards. For the full-year, the company is forecasting a 1.2% YOY increase in
sales to ¥600mn.With regard to other businesses, the company’s policy is to increase school numbers in Meiko Soccer School,
Waseda Academy Kobetsu Schools, and Meiko Kids, respectively, and is forecasting
an increase in sales due to the attendant increase in student numbers. In terms
of income, the company expects to continue making slight loss in FY8/15 due to
the burden of front investments required for establishing new schools.Promoting area reorganization, establishment of support
centers, and right-sizing and reallocation of staff (2) Measures towards promoting
the renewed growth of the Meiko Gijuku business The number of students at
Meiko Gijuku schools has continued on a slight declining trend and growth in
earnings has faltered amid intensifying competition to capture students with
the continuing decline in the birthrate and the appearance of competitors in
some areas trying to capture students by offering low prices, and so forth. The
company will therefore once again promote its educational policy of “Meiko-style! Self-supported learning,” which is a distinctive characteristic and strength of Meiko
Gijuku, and has also started various management reform initiatives targeting
renewed growth. “Meiko-style! Self-supported learning,” refers to a method of learning instruction that aims to foster
human resources with the ability to think and solve questions for themselves.
Rather than simply giving students the answers to the questions, lecturers give
them hints that lead to the answers in order to foster the students’ ability to derive the answers themselves. The method is based
on the concept that this will build the students’ motivation to study. Moreover, as part of the company’s management reforms, it has taken three broad actions. First,
it integrated the Meiko Gijuku Directly Operated Business Division and Meiko
Gijuku Franchised Business Division, and has restructured it into seven areas
(Business Division Nos. 1 to 7). This integration has created a structure that
will enable thorough information sharing for each region, promoting faster and
more efficient new school openings and other operations.The second action was the
establishment of the “Meiko Support Center” for improving business efficiency and customer satisfaction.
The “Meiko Support Center” consists of the Customer Support Section, the School Support
Section and the Policy and Manual Section. Such functions already existed
within the company, but now the newly established specialized unit is expected
to enhance the support functions. The School Support Section is in charge of
supporting franchised schools, by sending company supervisors to make regular
visits to each newly opened school to provide front-line support for a certain period
of time. The third action was
appropriate repositioning of human resources in order to promote organizational
vitalization and improvement of productivity. All executive officers’ responsibilities have been changed and divisional heads have
been transferred, paving the way for internal reforms. In addition, the company has
also conducted training for franchised school owners to strengthen the
management capabilities of franchised schools. Specifically, the initiatives of
high achieving managers of directly operated schools will be made into manuals
to enable their knowledge to be transmitted to franchised school owners through
training. In 2014, the company held training sessions on the theme of “Counseling for signing up for FC school” to improve the ratio of people making inquiries about school
enrollment who continue on to actual enrollment. In 2015 the company plans to
hold seminars on theme of “Communications with students
and parents,” and 2016 on “Lecturer management.”
Improving schools communication capabilities with students and parents is
expected to curb the rate of student withdrawals from the schools. Meanwhile,
the seminar on lecturer management is expected to increase lecturers’ motivation and thereby improve the quality of classes. The effects of these actions are not expected to be immediately
apparent, but they will bear watching going forward as they are expected to
increase student numbers.Aiming to achieve highest operating income on record for
FY8/16, the final year of the medium-term business plan (3) Three-year medium-term
business plan For FY8/16, the final year of
the three-year medium-term business plan, the company targeting net sales of
\20,960mn and operating income of \4,120mn. The company aims to return to a
growth trajectory from H2 FY8/15, and to achieve a new record for operating
income in FY8/16 for the first time in three years. Looking at the sales plan by business for FY8/16, in Meiko
Gijuku directly operated and franchised school businesses, sales are planned to
increase by 5% to the targets for FY8/15, while in the preparatory school
business and other businesses, sales are forecast to see double-digit increases
of 45%, and 28% respectively. In addition to the effect of the aforementioned
management reforms in the Meiko Gijuku business, in the supplemental business
the company plans to capture a greater number of students given the increase in
students hoping to attend medical universities, while in other businesses, the
company intends to grow sales by increasing the number of both directly
operated and franchised schools in Meiko Soccer Schools, Waseda Academy Kobetsu
Schools, Meiko Kids Schools, and also increasing the number of students.In the Meiko Gijuku business,
the company is promoting development of next-generation learning models using
the Internet, and plans to commence trial operation in stages from the spring
of 2015. Currently the company provides services for a diverse customer needs
for example with the “Meiko Elementary School
Student Course,” which is a paper-based course for
mathematics and Japanese language for elementary school students, and the “MEIKO MUSE” video-based lesson for high
school students. However, the introduction of the next-generation learning
model is expected to make the company’s
offerings even more competitive. In other initiatives, the company will continue to actively
undertake M&As. The target fields will be areas where the company is
currently not involved in the education services market, such as lifelong
education, nursing care and activity support in the senior segment.
Furthermore, as with the recent acquisition of Waseda EDU as a subsidiary, the
company is also planning to focus on education services for foreigners.◆Shareholder Return Policy Expectations for steady earnings increase and growth in
dividends The company has been recording
continued dividend increases since it was listed on the stock market, and for
FY8/15 it plans an increase of ¥2 YOY to ¥34. Thus, the company is highly regarded as having a proactive
stance on shareholder returns. The company has established a policy of raising
its dividend payout ratio in steps to 50% with continuous increases in
dividends as its basic policy from now on. Also, the Company has a shareholder special benefit plan of
giving shareholders on August 31 a QUO card worth ¥3,000 per share unit (100 shares). On the basis of the closing
share price of ¥1,217 on January 23, 2015, the gross
investment yield per share unit is in the 5% level, which far exceeds the
average gross investment yield for listed companies of about 1.7%.The company has established stable high profitability and a
sound financial standing through its unique franchise system in the fiercely
competitive educational service industry. Thus, the company is estimated to
expand steady earnings and, at the same time, to increase its dividends. Also,
with regard to ROE (Return On Equity), which is gaining importance as an
investment indicator, the company’s actual figure was 17.6% for
the previous fiscal year, which far exceeds the average 8.5% for the companies
listed on the first section of the Tokyo Stock Exchange, and thus will gain
continued attention as an attractive company to invest in. 報告內容僅供參考，不得作為任何投資引用之唯一依據，且其投資風險及決定應由投資人自行判斷並自負損益。