GMOADPartners(JP-4784)TSEJASDAQShiftingtoaPureHoldingCompanyStructuretoAccelerateProfitGrowth
  2015-05-29 提供機構：FISCO 作者：FISCO 點閱次數：4   

GMO AD Partners Inc. (4784) is
one of the core companies of the GMO Internet (9449) group, responsible for the
Internet advertising and media business. In January 2015 the company shifted to
a pure holding company structure in order to strengthen the group management
function and speed up management decision-making within each business. The
company has adopted policies for accelerating profit growth. The company’s consolidated operating results for the fiscal year through
December 2014, i.e. FY12/14, were announced on February 5, 2015. Sales
increased 25.5% year on year (y-o-y) to \23,742mn, and operating profit
declined 0.6% to \656mn. The results exceeded the company’s guidance revised in December 2014. The company recorded a
dramatic increase in sales as growth in social ads and the contribution of
newly consolidated group companies GMO Solution Partner Inc. and GMO Concierge
Co. Ltd. outweighed a contraction in managed placement in the media rep
business. Meanwhile, on the profit front, both operating profit and recurring
profit declined slightly as the company recorded lower profits in the media rep
and agency businesses along with a group wide increase in personnel costs. For FY12/15, the company is
projecting higher sales and lower profits, with a 9.5% y-o-y increase in sales
to \26,000mn and a 63.4% decline in operating profit to \240mn. The company is
projecting this decline because it has positioned FY12/15 as a year for
preparing its internal structure to increase the pace of growth, and is
factoring in an increase in costs for strategic investments, mainly to
strengthen its human resources. The theme for this effort is “evolve into a technology-oriented Internet advertising company.” The company will make investments to strengthen its competitive
capabilities in core fields for enhancement, primarily growth fields such as
the smartphone advertising domain, and private data management platforms
(DMPs). At the same time, the company will enhance its media development. In
customer development, the company intends to develop Japanese clients with
nationwide scale to help drive faster growth from 2016 onwards.◆Company Profile Internet advertising is the
main business, accounting for 75% of sales The company’s three business segments are
the Internet Advertising segment, the Media & Content Development segment,
and the Solution segment. Looking at the breakdown of sales, the Internet
advertising business is the main business, accounting for 75% of sales. Details
of each business are as follows.○Internet Advertising
segment The Internet Advertising
segment is divided between the media rep business and the agency business,
which account for approximately 30% and 70% of the segment sales, respectively.
The media rep business has a
customer base of approximately 3,000 mid-size and SME-sized advertising
agencies, to whom the company sells Internet advertising media acquired through
business alliances and so forth. The agency business includes SEM”*1 services such as listing advertising, as well as Web
production and DSP”*2 advertising and the
affiliate advertising business of GMO INNOVATORS Inc., which became a
consolidated group company in July 2013. ○Media & Content
Development segment This segment includes the
Japanese search engine service business of JWord Inc., which became a
consolidated group company in March 2013, the social game business, the
smartphone media business of GMO mobile, Inc. and the free magazine business
(book planning, production, and publication) of GMO Concierge (Hong Kong),
which became a consolidated group company in October 2013. ○Solution segment The main business of this segment is that of GMO Solution
Partner. The main services include support in attracting website visitors and
website construction and management support for e-commerce websites. Marketing
support services include the Japanese search keyword service JWord, search
engine optimization (SEO) services, and MAP search optimization services.◆Business Trends FY12/14 results surpassed the
company’s plan (1) Overview of FY12/14
full-year operating results GMO AD Partners announced its consolidated operating results for
FY12/14 on February 5, 2015. Sales grew by 25.5% y-o-y to \23,742mn, operating
profit declined by 0.6% to \656mn, recurring profit declined by 0.5% to \650mn,
and net profit increased by 132.5% to \420mn. These results surpassed the
revised figures for sales and profits announced in December 2014.Sales saw a double-digit increase. This was mainly due to brisk
activity in social ads, as well as added sales from subsidiaries newly
consolidated within the past year, such as GMO Solution Partner and GMO
Concierge. These increases were partially offset by a decline in managed placement
in the media rep business.Despite the double-digit
increase in sales, operating profit stagnated because of the impact of changes
in the market environment and a decline in managed placement in the media rep
business, a temporary decline in ad placements by major clients in the agency
business, and other factors. The cost of sales ratio
improved, partly because of the contribution from GMO Solution Partner, but
SG&A costs surged from 19.5% to 25.0%, which was a major factor driving
down the operating margin. Looking at a breakdown of SG&A costs, personnel
costs increased sharply from 9.6% in FY12/13 to 13.3%, which was the main
factor driving up the SG&A margin. The main factor behind the significant increase in net profit
was the recording of extraordinary gains from a gain on change in equity of
\54mn following the merger of a consolidated subsidiary and a gain on sales of
an affiliates’ stocks of \62mn. A further factor was a
decline in the effective tax rate as losses carried forward were continued due
to the merger of the subsidiary.Signs of recovering momentum
in the core Internet Advertising segment (2) Business trends by segment
○Internet Advertising
segment In the Internet Advertising
segment, sales rose 9.5% y-o-y to \17,823mn and gross profit declined 6.3% to
\2,463mn. Although a decline in managed placement sales was covered by brisk
sales on social advertising, smartphone advertising, and affiliate advertising,
and so forth, the gross margin declined due to a fall in sales in the media rep
business, which weighed on earnings, and a temporary decline in advertisements
by major clients in the agency business. Moreover, from 1Q FY12/15 onwards, the
company is projecting a recovery in profitability, partly due to redistributing
its personnel deployment. However, on a quarterly basis, sales and profits began to
increase again from Q3 onward, and in Q4 sales recovered their momentum to rise
22.4% y-o-y, partly because of an increase in placements by major clients.○Media & Content
Development segment In the Media & Content
Development segment, both sales and income increased significantly, with sales
increasing 49.4% y-o-y to \3,563mn and gross profit climbing 39.4% to \2,139mn.
The main factor driving the increases was the first full-year contribution in
FY12/14 of JWord, which was consolidated in March 2013, and GMO Concierge,
which was consolidated in October 2013. Furthermore, in app development, the
company boosted sales from the news site app Yomerumo by enhancing its
functionality. Moreover, the results of JWord, which accounts for the majority
of this segment, have seen sales and profits level with the previous fiscal
year due to delays in restructure the sales system. The sales system of JWord
are centered on a push-type sales through agencies including GMO Solution
Partner. Some agencies, however, have been affected by a temporary dip in
performance of the agency organization structure, such as an increase in
retirements and other such factors. As a result, on a quarterly basis, Q4 sales
were lackluster, increasing only 0.3% y-o-y, while gross profit declined 9.5%.○Solution segment In the Solution segment, sales increased 8.6 times y-o-y to
\2,356mn, and gross profit increased 10.1 times to \1,977mn. The main factor in
the increase was the contribution of GMO Solution Partner, which was
consolidated in January 2014. Within the earning structure of GMO Solution
Partner, the majority of expenses are the personnel cost component of SG&A
costs (around 200 telephone sales staff).The Company is Maintaining a
Sound Financial Structure and Expects to Improve Profitability Going Forward (3) Financial Status Total assets at the end of
FY12/14 stood at \10,220mn, up \1,770mn from the end of the previous fiscal
year. The increase mainly reflected the consolidation of GMO Solution Partner.
In current assets, cash and cash equivalents and deposit paid in subsidiaries
and affiliates increased \752mn from the end of the previous fiscal year, while
accounts receivable increased \1,018mn in line with the increase in sales up to
the end of the fiscal year. In fixed assets, goodwill declined \440mn. On the other hand, liabilities
were \5,099mn, up \1,314mn from the end of the previous fiscal year. The
increase mainly reflected an increase of \735mn in accounts payable, and
increases of \240mn in interest-bearing debt and \188mn in accrued consumption
taxes. Net assets increased \456mn to \5,121mn atop increases in capital
surplus and retained earnings. Looking at key performance
indicators, the liquidity ratio, an indicator of security, stood at 147.7%,
above the 100% reference point. Although the equity ratio had declined
slightly, at 46.3% it is also not at a problem level. Net cash (cash and cash
equivalents and deposit paid in subsidiaries and affiliates – interest-bearing debt) stood at \2,624mn, up \512mn. These and
other indicators suggest that the company is maintaining a sound financial
status. Looking at profitability, the company’s aggressive M&A activity over the past year or two has caused
ROA and the operating margin to display a slight declining trend. Now, the
company is expected to improve its profitability by using the management
resources of the subsidiaries acquired through these M&As and increasing
the ratio of sales of its own high-value-added products.◆Forecasts 2015 a year for building base
to support growth acceleration (1) FY12/15 plan The company has positioned
2015 as a year for preparing the base for accelerating group from FY12/16
onward, aiming to “evolve into a technology-oriented
Internet advertising corporate group.” First, in January the company
shifted to a pure holding company structure. This will concentrate its group
strategy drafting functions and management functions, allowing agile and
efficient management in each of its business fields, and increasing the speed
of management responses. The company intends to develop its business by categorizing it
into four new operating domains: Media & Ad Tech, Data Technology, Agency,
and Solution, as well as New Segment. Management of the operations previously
conducted by GMO AD Partners is transferred to the newly split-off company GMO
AD MARKETING, Inc.In the Media & Ad Tech
domain, GMO AD MARKETING and GMO Mobile will conduct product and service
development centered on development of next-generation supply-side platforms
(SSPs) and media. In the Data Technology domain, the company will utilize the
machine-learning research of JWord and the data assets of the entire group. In
the Agency domain, the company will promote its data strategy centered on the
private DMP of GMO NIKKO, Inc. and an industry-specialized sales strategy,
aiming to develop Japanese nationwide clients. In the Solution domain, GMO
Solution Partner will take steps to improve customer retention by increasing
customer satisfaction. At the same time, the company intends to develop new
customers. Furthermore, to accelerate its
growth, the company will make strategic investments totaling \560mn in the
Media & Ad Tech domain and Agency domain in 2015, aiming to bolster human
resources and strengthen development of in-house products and services. The
specific details of the investment are as follows. ○Media & Ad Tech
domain The company will bolster the
number of development engineers and sales staff in the Media & Ad Tech
domain, to upgrade development and sales framework for new products and
services. First, in the domain of smartphone advertising, where the market is
expanding rapidly, the company aims to develop a highly competitive SSP”*1 and establish itself as the leader in Japan for the number of
distributions in the medium term. Currently, major Japanese clients have not
fully exploited the medium of smartphone advertising because of concerns over
brand safety*2. The company plans to increase its SSP share by providing a
mechanism that can distribute safely and improving functionality, such as
user-friendliness. The strategy is to expand the company’s own products and services, such as DSP advertising, by
increasing the number of companies (advertising media) adopting SSP. In media development, the
company will take steps to increase the number of unique users*3 of its news
curation website, Yomerumo, by enhancing the content function, and aggressively
stepping up promotion activities such as television commercials and Internet
advertising to increase recognition. By increasing the number of unique users,
we see the company expanding its network and thereby increasing sales of its
in-house products and services. ○Agency domain In the Agency domain, the
company will undertake a large scale increase in personnel for advertising
operation consultancy, sales, and engineering operations, to strengthen its
sales framework centered on private DMPs*4. The sales force of the company’s agency business operator, GMO NIKKO, is smaller than that of
other major companies in the same industry, and human resource expansion has
become an issue for further sales and profit growth. Moreover, in the private DMP
service, which the company launched in autumn of 2014, some of the company’s existing clients have already decided to use the service. The
service offered by the company is characterized by a user interface that
strongly emphasizes ease of use, real time links to Internet advertisement
distribution, and a concentration of the GMO Internet Group’s high-level big data processing technology expertise. Private DMP products and services assist with retention of
existing customers. The company’s strategy is therefore to
promote sale development focusing on existing major customers and industries,
where the company has a relatively strong market share, and to acquire more
Japanese clients with nationwide scale.Smooth start in January – February, with the pace of increasing mid-career hires in focus
(2) Forecast for FY12/15 In its forecast for FY12/15
the company is projecting sales to increase 9.5% y-o-y to \26,000mn, operating
profit to decline 63.4% to \240mn, recurring profit to decline 63.1% to \240mn,
and net profit to come in at zero. Sales are projected to
increase across all business domains, but profits will be weighed down by
increases in personnel costs, hiring costs, and marketing costs, all due to
strategic investments. Ignoring the strategic investments, operating profit
would be forecast to increase 21.9% to \800mn. Furthermore, the gap between
recurring profit and net profit is due to the effect of the consolidation
adjustments account, and no particular extraordinary losses and so forth are
expected. The company appears to be making a good start in January-March.
In particular, advertising placements by major clients have increased
significantly after declining in FY12/14., and are contributing to higher
sales. Depending on the pace of personnel increases, we believe that the
company can achieve its guidance.◆Policy on Shareholder
Returns Dividend payout ratio target
of 35%, increase of \4.71 per share for FY12/14 The company’s policy on shareholder returns is to target a dividend payout
ratio of 35%. The dividend for FY12/14 was \9.01 (dividend payout ratio: 35%),
an increase of \4.71 from FY12/13. The dividend for FY12/15 has yet to be
decided; however it is possible that if the company performs as planned, no
dividend will be paid. The company also has a shareholder benefits system. Under the
program, shareholders registered as holding at least 1 unit of shares (100
shares) on the record dates of June 30 and December 31 receive (1) a cash-back
payment of share purchase commission fees on the purchase of GMO AD Partners
shares from GMO CLICK Securities, Inc. and (2) cash-back payment of share trade
commission fees from GMO CLICK Securities up to a limit of \3,000 occurring
within the target period. 報告內容僅供參考，不得作為任何投資引用之唯一依據，且其投資風險及決定應由投資人自行判斷並自負損益。