T-GaiaCorporation(JP-3738)TokyoStockExchangeFirstSectionBoostedEarningstoCompleteaSolidFY3/15
  2015-06-04 提供機構：FISCO 作者：FISCO 點閱次數：15   

T-Gaia (3738) is Japan’s leading primary mobile phone distributor, with a market share
of approximately 13% for domestic mobile phone sales. The company had 2,178
sales bases as of March 31, 2015, including agents’ shops operated by its secondary distributors. T-Gaia also runs
a solutions business for corporate clients and a prepaid settlement service
business involving electronic money. In FY3/15, T-Gaia reported a
decline in revenues and an increase in earnings, with consolidated net sales
decreasing 9.2% year on year to \642,095mn, but operating income climbing 12.1%
to \14,306mn. Although the company sold 5.12 million mobile phones, down 8.5%, sales
were solid for tablets, accessories, and other smartphone related products.
Profitability improved on the strength of companywide structural reforms,
including for mobile phone shops. Operating income therefore exceeded
management’s initial target. For FY3/16, T-Gaia looks to
achieve growth in both revenues and earnings, with net sales to increase 2.0%
to ¥655,000mn and operating income rising
4.8% to ¥15,000mn. The company anticipates a 3.5%
gain in unit sales of mobile phones and expects to maintain favorable sales of
tablets and other related products, expanding sales of its Mobile
Telecommunications Business. Management forecasts higher earnings for the
Solutions Business for corporate clients and the Settlement Services Business. In keeping with its corporate
slogan of “Realization of Smartphone World”, the company established the Smart Life Business in April 2014,
consolidating accessories and other related products and settlement services
within that business as part of a policy of bolstering smartphone related
operations. In the solutions business for corporate clients, the company will
launch Hikari Collaboration services with the TG’s brand name to expand services to corporate clients. T-Gaia has announced a policy of returning profits to shareholders
based on a dividend payout ratio target of 30% or more. Accordingly, for FY3/16
the company plans increase its dividend for two consecutive years to ¥41.0 per share, up ¥3.5
year on year (for a payout ratio of 31.3%).◆Business Overview T-Gaia has three business segments. The first is the Mobile
Telecommunications Business, which mainly conducts sales of mobile phones,
smart devices and other related products to consumers, along with agency
operations. The second is the Solutions Business, which encompasses mobile
solutions business for corporate clients and network operations. The third is
the Settlement Services Business and Other Business, covering online settlement
methods involving electronic money and overseas businesses. The graph below shows
that the Mobile Telecommunications Business accounts for 83.1% of net sales and
77.7% of operating income, making it the company’s core business. The breakdown of each business segment is as
follows.Well-Balanced Sales of the
Devices of Major Telecom Carriers in Japan (1) Mobile Telecommunications BusinessThe Mobile Telecommunications
Business, the core business of T-Gaia, primarily consists of contract agency
operations for mobile phone carriers and other telecommunications services and
sales of smart devices and other device-related products, mainly for consumers.
Net sales in the Mobile Telecommunications Business are divided into agency
commission revenue received based on the agreements with telecom carriers and
device sales. In terms of the sales mix, device sales revenue represents more
than half of the whole. Contract agency operations for
telecommunication services are based on agency agreements with NTT DOCOMO
(9437), the KDDI Group (9433), the SoftBank Group (9984) and other telecommunication
carriers. Commissions received are defined by specific commission rates and
commission payment periods that carriers set. For this reason, this segment has
an earnings structure that is not swayed solely by mobile phone sales. In this
sense, it is stable stock- type of business with recurring revenues from an
established customer base. With regard to the sale of
mobile devices including smartphones, etc., T-Gaia purchases the merchandise
from various carriers and sells to customers via its directly managed shops. In
addition, T-Gaia wholesales mobile phones to the Group’s agency distributors, as well as home electric appliance stores
and general merchandise stores. T-Gaia also procures various accessory products
from manufacturers and trading companies and sells these products, mainly
through directly managed accessory shops and carrier shops. The company also
wholesales accessories through its agency distributors. As of March 2015, the number of sales bases was 2,178, including
its agency distributors, with a nationwide network stretching across the
breadth of Japan from Hokkaido in the north to Okinawa in the south. These
shops consisted of 1,194 carrier shops, 250 shops dealing multi-carrier brands,
712 home appliance stores and GMSs, and 14 accessory shops as well as 8 China
Unicom shops in China. T-Gaia has the industry’s largest number of sales bases in Japan. The profit and loss
items of the China business are included in the Settlement Services Business
and Other Business.T-Gaia leads its industry in
Japan, with a market share of about 13%. Placed second is CONEXIO Corporation
(9422), which mainly sells NTT DOCOMO devices. Third and fourth, respectively,
are HIKARI TSUSHIN, INC. (9435), and Bell-Park Co., Ltd. (9441), which mainly
sell SoftBank offerings. T-Gaia is noteworthy for a well-balanced lineup
covering devices from major carriers NTT DOCOMO, au, and SoftBank. Steadily Expanding Number of
Lines Subscribing to movino star Service (2) Solutions Business The Solutions Business
includes solution services for corporate clients such as sales of mobile phones
and solutions services such as terminal and line management services; optical
fiber agency services, such as FTTH for both corporations and consumers; and
high volume data transmission services utilizing the cloud infrastructure of
WAM!NET Japan, which became its subsidiary in March 2014. Among these services, the sales of mobile phones follow more or
less the same business model as the Mobile Telecommunications Business. The
terminal and line management services provide usage management, charge
settlement, payment agency and other services related to various
telecommunication devices used by corporate clients, such as mobile phones,
smartphones and tablets. These solution services are bundled into the “movino star” application service provider
(ASP) managed service provided by the company. The number of lines subscribing
to movino star service has steadily expanded, reaching 395,000 as of March
2015.The company also provides T-GAIA Smart SUPPORT as total solution
package services　including Mobile Device Management (MDM) services relating to
integrated management of mobile device configuration settings and information
to security measures to deal with matters such as theft or loss of devices,
kitting services (services to perform initial setup so that devices can be used
immediately after purchase), help desk and security desk services, and movino
star services.WAM!NET Japan provides cloud
computing services that corporate clients use to ensure safe transmission,
sharing and storage of large volumes of data. The mainstay service in this
lineup is GigaCC, which had the top share of sales in FY3/14 for the physical
storage-type online file-sharing market. This service has been widely adopted
among mainly medium- and large-scale enterprises in Japan as a tool to safely
and securely transfer and share files between companies. Selling Electronic
Money-Based Merchandise and Gift Cards mainly through Convenience Stores
Nationwide (3) Settlement Services
Business and Other Business The Settlement Services
Business involves sales of electronic money-based merchandise and gift cards
using PIN sales systems* through
major convenience stores and other retail outlets throughout Japan. Currently,
the business has exceeding 50,000 sales bases in Japan for PIN and gift cards
combined. The merchandise handled
includes Amazon and BitCash gift cards, as well as WebMoney and Visa branded
V-preca cards in PIN merchandise. The method of recording net sales differs for
gift cards and PIN merchandise. For gift cards, the company records only the
commission received from the operators as net sales, while for PIN merchandise
the total transaction amount (face value amount) is recorded as net sales. Other Businesses include overseas businesses such as operation
of China Unicom shops based on an agency agreement with major Chinese
telecommunications carrier China Unicom, solution services for Japanese
companies in Shanghai, and gift card sales operations in Singapore.◆Financial Results
Trends Boosting Earnings on
Favorable Sales of Tablets and Related Products as well as Impact of Structural
Reforms and Other Factors (1) FY3/15 results In FY3/15, the company recorded a decline in revenue and an
increase in earnings. Net sales declined 9.2% year on year to \642,095mn.
Operating income rose 12.1% to \14,306mn, ordinary income increased 12.1% to
\14,194mn, and net income was up 13.3% to \7,748mn.TG Group sales of mobile phones declined 8.5% to 5.12 million
units, while the Settlement Services Business saw sales revenues drop amid a
shift in demand from PIN merchandise to gift cards, leading to a decrease in
net sales. At the same time, the company posted double-digit earnings gains
owing to favorable sales of tablets and related products, and the impact of
companywide structural reforms, centered on mobile phone shops. Profits
exceeded management’s initial targets. With regard
to the impact of structural reforms, the company strengthened companywide
education and training as well as promoting human resource investment for
making temporary and contract workers into regular employees and direct hiring.
As a result, personnel cost per employee increased 7% from FY3/14. On the other
hand, gross margin increased by around 10%, as it appears that productivity per
employee is increasing.Operating Income of Mainstay
Mobile Telecommunications Business Rose for Second Straight Year (2) Business segment trends ○Mobile
Telecommunications Business Net sales of this segment decreased 7.4% year on year, to
\533,593mn, but operating income rose 26.4% to \11,123mn. This was mainly
because unit sales of mobile phones declined around 8% to 4.94 million units.
There was a sales fallback early in the year from a surge in demand in 4Q FY3/14
associated with changes in sales promotions by telecom carriers, but sales
volume recovered from June 2014 as the main telecom carriers completed
roll-outs of new phone charge plans, with the launches of the iPhone 6 and
other new models contributing.Operating income increased for the second straight year, with
the segment operating margin rising from 1.5% to 2.1%. This reflected cost
efficiencies stemming from efforts to streamline the operations of mobile phone
shops and other channels. Another factor was enhanced training and education
programs at the TG Academy training and education institute to boost the
customer service skills of sales staff and the productivity of shops. Also
contributing was improved profitability from favorable sales of offerings in
addition to mobile phones, notably tablets and related products. Sales volume
of tablets rose 1.7 times year on year, and net sales from related merchandise
were up 1.3 times. Especially, net sales climbed 2.2 times from the 14 directly
managed accessory shops, which include the e-commerce site, owing to solid
demand for films, case covers, speakers, and other items.○Solutions Business The Solutions Business recorded declines in both revenues and
earnings. Net sales were \26,263mn, down 8.0% year on year. Operating income
was \2,498mn, down 21.4%. Mobile solutions services performed well. Among them
was movino star, which expanded steadily to 395,000 contracts. Offsetting this
growth, however, was that there were fewer large orders than those posted in
FY3/14, causing the number of phones sold to corporate clients to decline 13.6%
to 184,000 units. Another factor was that sales of FTTH and other fixed-line
merchandise remained sluggish. WAM!NET Japan had a positive effect on
consolidated earnings.○Settlement Services
Business and Other Business Net sales in this segment
declined 19.3% year on year to \82,238mn. Operating income was down 12.0% to
\684mn. This was because although the number of shops handling offerings for
this segment increased to around 52,000, there was a shift in demand from PIN
merchandise, where the face value amount is recorded as net sales , to gift
cards, where only the received commission is recorded as net sales . Another
factor was a decline in transactions for electronic money-based merchandise. Overseas, the Chinese mobile
phone shops business runs eight China Unicom shops in Shanghai. These
operations are becoming profitable. T-Gaia concluded an agency agreement for
the corporate business with China Unicom, a leading telecom carrier in China.
This was in keeping with efforts to cultivate corporate clients and to step up
multi-carrier brand proposals. T-Gaia expanded the number of stores handling gift cards in
Singapore, steadily increasing sales.◆Outlook Looking to Increase Revenues
and Earnings in FY3/16 as well as Further Enhance margins (1) Financial forecasts for
FY3/16 For FY3/16, T-Gaia projects
increases in both revenues and earnings, with a 2.0% increase in net sales to
\655,000mn and a 4.8% rise in operating income to \15,000mn. Management looks
for mobile phone unit sales to rise 3.5% to 5.3 million. It also anticipates
higher sales of tablets and other related products, while companywide
structural reforms should continue to bear fruit. The company forecasts that
the operating margin will further increase from 2.2% to 2.3%. By business segment, the
Mobile Telecommunications Business targets a 3.1% increase in net sales to
\550,000mn, a 3.7% decrease in operating income to \10,700mn, and a 3.2%
increase in unit mobile phone sales to 5.1 million units. T-Gaia expects the
market to be stimulated by the start of new Hikari Collaboration services from
NTT DOCOMO and SoftBank, which package fiber-optic services through fiber
access wholesaling agreements, enabled by NTT’s starting to wholesale fiber access services. Management
anticipates that the addition of fiber-optic service contract charges will
expand earnings opportunities. With TG Academy having
provided advance education and training, T-Gaia is apparently rolling out its
Hikari Collaboration business well. At the same time, management expects that
increased customer traffic at shops will increase sales not just for mobile
phones but also for tablets and related merchandise. Although the number of directly managed mobile phone shops
should remain basically unchanged from FY3/15, the company plans to increase
the number of accessory shops, for which sales remain solid, from 14 at the end
of FY3/15 to 40 as soon as possible in FY3/16.The forecasts for the
Solutions Business are for increases in both revenues and earnings, with a 3.0%
increase in net sales to \27,000mn and a 14.4% rise in operating income to
\2,850mn. Mobile solution services are continuing to expand, and the company
will launch corporate Hikari Collaboration services in April under the TG brand
name, so it looks for fixed-line related merchandise demand to recover. The
ratio of smartphones among mobile phone subscriptions in Japan at the end of
December 2014 was more than half at 52.3%. By comparison, the ratio for
corporate subscriptions was only 26%, and is forecast to increase steadily
going to 39% in one years’ time, and 46% after three
years (MM Research Institute, Ltd.) Smartphones are considered to offer higher
profitability per unit than feature phones, and the increase in the ratio of
smartphones for corporate subscribers is expected to contribute to the
Solutions Business achievement of its full-year earnings targets. The forecasts for the
Settlement Services Business and Other Business are for a 5.1% increase in net
sales to \78,000mn and a 113.2% rise in operating income to \1,450mn.
Notwithstanding an ongoing shift from PIN merchandise to gift cards, management
aims to boost earnings by bolstering merchandise and sales channels to take
advantage of an expanding market for electronic-based money. Internationally, the company
looks to enhance earnings by reducing losses from mobile phone shop operations
in China and stepping up multi-carrier brand proposals in solution services for
corporate clients. Management anticipates
significantly improved results for overseas operations, including for the
solidly performing settlement services business in Singapore. Deploying a Smartphone-Driven
Growth Strategy (2) New initiatives Smartphones accounted for
72.4% of the Japanese mobile phone market’s unit sales in 2014, but they represented just 52.3% of
cumulative subscriptions. Smartphones thus remain promising, and demand for
smart devices including tablets should continue to grow. Taking such change of market
environment into consideration, T-Gaia put up the corporate slogan of “the Realization of Smartphone World” and pushing ahead with a smartphone-driven growth strategy. In
FY3/15, these smart devices accounted for 73.2% of the company’s mobile phone subscriptions, which was apparently above the
industry average. T-Gaia will reinforce its
strategic efforts for FY3/16 by establishing the Smart Life Business. The
company aims to bolster smartphone-related operations by having this business
oversee accessories and other smart device-related merchandise and other
operations that the Settlement Services Business and other areas previously
handled. Another new initiative was to
spin off and merge TG Academy, which provides education and training for sales
staff at mobile phone and other shops, with J-COM Co., Ltd., a subsidiary of
J-COM Holdings Co., Ltd. (2462), a major temporary staffing company, to create
Career Design Academy Co., Ltd. in April 2015. T-Gaia has an 80% equity stake
in the new entity. That subsidiary leverages the education and training expertise
of both partners, and will offer advanced services to corporate clients,
centered on mobile phone sales operations. Mobile phone shops play more
important roles today because of the advanced functionality of smartphones and
growing service diversity. Staff skills greatly shape the productivity of
shops, making education and training even more important.T-Gaia has positioned Career Design Academy to broaden its
client base among enterprises engaging in not only mobile phone sales but also
in various retail businesses, thereby diversifying the company’s earnings sources.◆Financial Status and
Shareholder Return Policy Steadily improving stability
benchmarks and maintaining an ROE of well above 20% (1) Financial status At March 31, 2015, total
assets stood at \90,080mn, down 14,512mn from a year earlier. The principal factors
in this decline were decreases, at the current assets level, of \3,653mn in
trade receivable, \7,534mn in merchandise inventory, and \645mn in other
accounts receivable. At the fixed assets level, goodwill was down \1,663mn. Fixed liabilities decreased
\20,084mn to \60,794mn, largely because interest-bearing debt was down
\18,383mn. Net assets were up \5,573mn to \29,286mn, reflecting a rise in
retained earnings. There were noteworthy improvements in the equity ratio and
interest-bearing debt ratio, which are key stability indicators. The company
maintained an ROE of well above 20%, while the operating margin steadily
improved.Dividend Set to Increase for
Second Straight Year in Keeping with Shareholder Returns Policy of maintaining
Dividend Payout Ratio Above 30% (2) Shareholder returns policy
The company’s shareholder returns policy
is mainly to return profits to shareholders through dividends. Regarding the
level of dividends, the company’s policy is to decide the
level by aiming for a dividend payout ratio of over 30%, while retaining
internal reserves needed for future business development and to strengthen the
management base. For FY3/16, the company plans to lift the annual dividend by
\3.5 per share to \41.0 (dividend payout ratio of 31.3%), representing a second
straight rise. The dividend could increase if earnings exceed management’s target to prevent the payout ratio from dropping below 30%. 報告內容僅供參考，不得作為任何投資引用之唯一依據，且其投資風險及決定應由投資人自行判斷並自負損益。