EstoreCorporation(JP-4304)JASDAQDrivingFurtherExpansionandHigherProfitabilityThroughaComprehensiveeCommerceSupportProducerStrategy(II)
  2015-03-12 提供機構：FISCO 作者：FISCO 點閱次數：14   

◆Performance Outlook and Medium and
Long-Term Growth ScenarioInitial full-year forecasts
were maintained, factoring in investments in business structure reforms (1) FY3/15 Performance Outlook
For FY3/15, Estore forecasts
sales of \6,083mn (up 3.6% y-o-y), operating profit of \459mn (down 16.6%
y-o-y), recurring profit of \459mn (down 17.0% y-o-y) and net profit of \268mn
(down 17.2% y-o-y). Estore has not revised its initial forecasts. Estore is making investments
to shift from EC support to advertising services and consulting. The Company
notes that the timing and speed of those investments have fallen slightly
behind schedule. Nonetheless, we believe that
Estore’s performance in both the Systems Business and the Marketing Business is
returning to a growth stage. In FY3/15, we see the Company as laying the
groundwork for accelerating future growth by allocating surplus earnings
capacity to investment. Therefore, we believe that Estore will show a steady
turnaround in its full-year business results for FY3/15 while bearing its
investment burden for the future.Final Stages of Business
Structure Reforms in FY3/16 (2) Approach to Business
Performance from FY3/16 Onward and Medium and Long-term Growth Scenario Estore initiated business
structure reforms three years ago in FY3/12. The Company’s current assessment is that it has completed 50-60% of the entire
process. During this time, Estore’s business performance has
remained mostly flat since peaking out in FY3/13. As looked at earlier, Estore
now has a clearer picture of its future growth scenario and this is also
starting to reflect in its business performance. In an interview with us,
Representative Director Kenichi Ishimura of Estore said, “We now expect to complete all of the remaining business
structure reform processes in half to one-third of the time taken so far.” Mr. Ishimura is clearing stating his intention to speed up the
pace of business structure reforms going forward. This means that FY3/16 will
be a key year for putting the finishing touches on business structure reforms. Estore has not currently made
clear whether or not the final-stage year will be one that will also entail
investment, or a year for reaping returns. If it is the former, then
performance is highly likely to remain mostly the same for one more year,
whereas if it is the latter, we can expect Estore to return to an earnings
growth trajectory. Based on interviews conducted with the Company so far, we
have the impression that Estore puts stronger emphasis on solid medium and
long-term growth than on short-term profits. Accordingly, our present view is
that the former scenario is more likely than the latter.As Estore returns in earnest
to a high growth trajectory over the medium term, we believe that the Company
could choose to take steps to expand business through M&As and other
actions, in addition to driving the growth of the Marketing Business. One
reason for this belief is Estore’s purchase of treasury stock from Yahoo Japan
Corporation (4689) (2,198,500 shares for \2,339mn as of September 30, 2014). In
addition, if Estore is able to build confidence by restoring growth to the
Systems Business and making a success of the Marketing Business, we believe
that this confidence will embolden the Company to take on more financial risk.
Many different scenarios are conceivable in the event that Estore were to
conduct an M&A deal. Examples include deals that strengthen the Marketing
Business and acquisitions of platforms that assist with the sales promotions of
client companies. Because Estore conducts two types of businesses, namely EC
systems and Internet advertising agency operations, we believe that its
businesses cover an expansive range of fields and are able to easily capture
synergies. It is well within Estore’s reach to restore its standing as a
high-growth enterprise with its two existing businesses alone. Combined with additional
initiatives such as M&As, we believe that Estore offers all the more the
potential for faster acceleration of growth.◆Shareholder Returns The dividend payout ratio is
likely to be maintained at the same level as the previous fiscal year, although
dividend forecasts have not yet been announced Estore basically provides
shareholder returns through dividends. The Company issues dividends after
taking into account a comprehensive range of factors, including business
results, financial position and the need to retain ample internal reserves for
investment in growth. While no official dividend payout ratio has been formulated,
the foundation of Estore’s thinking on the distribution
of profits is its basic philosophy of “dividing
profits between 3 groups: shareholders, customers and staff.” The Company has a track record of setting dividends in line
with this basic philosophy. At present there has been no
announcement in respect of the FY3/15 earnings per share (EPS) and dividend
forecasts. Estore is forecasting net income of \268mn, a decrease of 17.2%
y-o-y. Based on this forecast, we estimate Estore’s EPS to be \88.8, factoring
in the effect of the Company’s acquisition of a large amount of treasury stock.
The estimated dividend payout ratio, based on our EPS estimate and last year’s
actual annual dividend of \31 per share, is 35%. This value falls within the
range of the Company’s dividend payout ratio for the past seven fiscal years.◆Corporate Profile Business Platform Established
with Shopserve in the Course of Developing EC Support Expertise Established in February 1999,
Estore started out in business by providing the storetool shopping cart service
and the Siteserve webhosting service. Initially after its founding, Estore
entered into marketing alliances with, among others, USEN Corp. (4842) (then
called USEN Broad Networks Corp.), So-net Entertainment Corp. (then called Sony
Communication Network Corp.) and the GMO Internet Group (9449) (then called
Global Media Online, Inc.) and expanded its operations. Subsequently, the
Company redesigned its service content and formed more alliances, entering into
business alliances with Yahoo Japan Corporation (4689) and Kakaku. com, Inc.
(2371). In 2006, Estore launched its
current core product Shopserve, a comprehensive EC support service provided as
an ASP service. With Shopserve, Estore established a platform as an EC support services
provider. The Company then entered the advertising business by converting
Precision Marketing Inc. into a consolidated subsidiary in 2011. Estore had
long been conducting activities based on the theme of determining how to boost
the sales of its clients. One answer was the acquisition of the aforementioned
subsidiary. Thereafter, the Estore Parent became actively involved in the
Marketing Business to help its clients attract customers and increase sales,
and set a clear policy of strengthening its hand in this field, leading up to
the present day.Estore is currently made up of
two business divisions. The Systems Business is a business division that
provides ASP EC support services, notably Shopserve. Its earnings model is
based on the collection of monthly system usage fees from corporate
subscribers, in addition to collecting a fixed percentage of sales as
commissions such as settlement agency fees. The Marketing Business helps
clients to attract customers and increase their sales, and is run primarily by
Estore subsidiary Precision Marketing and the Estore Parent. At present,
Precision Marketing serves customers in fields other than EC, while the Estore
Parent serves EC companies. Leveraging expertise amassed over the years, the
Marketing Business seeks to establish a business model that helps customers to
achieve their goals by combining a variety of methods such as consulting,
marketing agency services, and Internet advertising. 報告內容僅供參考，不得作為任何投資引用之唯一依據，且其投資風險及決定應由投資人自行判斷並自負損益。