MedicalSystemNetwork(JP-4350)TokyoStockExchangeFirstSectionPostedrecordhighs,whiledouble-digitincreasesinsalesandprofitsarealsoexpectedforthisyear
  2015-07-02 提供機構：FISCO 作者：FISCO 點閱次數：10   

Medical System Network
<4350> (hereafter, “the company”) has developed two main businesses: a dispensing pharmacy
business, and a pharmaceutical network business that caters to small and
medium-sized pharmacies. In the dispensing pharmacy business, it is promoting
its Group expansion strategy through proactively employing M&A. The company
aims for consolidated sales in the order of ¥300 bn in 10 years. Consolidated FY3/15 results
saw record highs in both sales and profits, with sales increasing 14.2% YoY to ¥75,548 mn and operating profit 26.3% to ¥2,641 mn, mainly due to the rise in member numbers in the
pharmaceutical network and revenue growth in the dispensing pharmacy business. The company has newly
announced its 4th Medium-Term Management Plan. For FY3/18, which is the final
year of the plan, it is targeting sales of ¥105,000 mn and operating profit of ¥4,000 mn. It plans to increase the number of member pharmacies
in its pharmaceutical network business from 1,200 at the end of the previous
year to 2,200, and the number of dispensing pharmacies from 345 to 500, both of
which would be a pace of increase greater than last three years, and the growth
is expected to continue to accelerate. In the pharmaceutical network
business, against the backdrop of the restrictions on medical costs, the
business environment for small and medium-sized dispensing pharmacies has
become increasingly severe, which is proving to be a tailwind for the company’s efforts to increase its number of member pharmacies. Moreover,
in 2015, in January it formed a business alliance with Fuyo General
Lease<8424> and in April with EM SYSTEMS<4820>. These alliances are
furthering expanding its services and will become factors behind the
accelerated growth. In the dispensing pharmacies
business, under a holistic regional care system being advanced by the national
government, its role is expected to become more important than ever as bases
providing medical care, nursing, and preventive functions. For the company
also, at the same time as pursuing the development of a next generation model
of pharmacies to respond to these needs, its policy is to aim to increase its
number of pharmacies while utilizing M&As. Double-digit growth is forecast for the FY3/16 results, with
sales are expected to rise 13.0% YoY to ¥85,353 mn and operating profit 14.9% to ¥3,036 mn. The two core businesses will continue to be the
driving force behind the company’s growth, while in this year
the company also plans to shift ”EHSS(elderly housing with
supportive services)” facilities off the balance
sheet to improve its financial position.◆Company Outline Its core businesses are the
pharmaceutical network business and the dispensing pharmacy business The company has two main businesses: the dispensing pharmacy
business and the pharmaceutical network business. It is also undertaking
peripheral businesses through its respective subsidiaries, including rental and
other medical facility-related operations, catering services and clinical
facility support services. The pharmaceutical network business is conducted by
Medical System Network and subsidiaries System Four and H&M, while the
dispensing pharmacy business is conducted by PHARMAHOLDINGS CO., LTD., its
subsidiaries and the Hokkaido Institute for Pharmacy Benefit Co., Ltd.Looking at the breakdown by segment (FY3/15) we see that while
the operation of pharmacies represents more than 90% of total consolidated
sales, operating profit may be virtually split into the pharmaceutical network
and dispensing pharmacy businesses, which are the company’s two core businesses. An overview of each segment is as set out
below.○Pharmaceutical Network
Business The business model for the
pharmaceutical network business supports enhanced pharmaceutical distribution
efficiency by acting as an intermediary in pharmaceutical sales between
dispensing pharmacies, medical institutions and pharmaceutical wholesalers.
Customers are mainly small or medium-sized dispensing pharmacies or those
operated by sole traders. The services the company provides in the pharmaceutical network
are a supply chain management service where the company negotiates prices with
wholesalers as an agent, orders as an agent, as well as acts as an agent for
account functions, and a dead stock exchange service (immobile stock
liquidation), which allows member pharmacies to exchange dead stock at each of
their stores. It also provides pharmacist training support and fund procurement
support.By becoming a member of the
network, dispensing pharmacies are able to conduct price negotiations with
pharmaceutical wholesalers on more favorable terms than if they did so alone.
In addition, they can enjoy a number of other operational benefits, such as
reducing pharmaceutical disposal losses and simplifying order-related work. The
benefits of becoming a member of the network are particularly large for small
to medium-sized dispensing pharmacies. Also, in its other businesses,
the company conducts development, sales and maintenance operations for the
receipt computer systems, O/E systems (pharmaceutical ordering system) and
peripheral equipment that it installs in dispensing pharmacies, as well as
sales of prescription dispensing machines, fixtures and fittings. As of the end of March 2015, the combined number of member
pharmacies in the network, including those in the Group and external members,
was 1,200 (including 35 hospitals and clinics) and the number is continuing to
increase. Ordering fees that arise corresponding with order volumes, and system
sales represent the majority of overall sales of this segment. But revenue from
ordering fees has become a major source of earnings and it is a stock business
model in which sales rise stably in line with increases in member pharmacy
numbers.○Dispensing Pharmacy
Business The dispensing pharmacy
business develops dispensing pharmacies in each area mainly under the Nanohana
Pharmacy brand, and is expanding its number of Group stores while utilizing
M&As. As of the end of March 2015, the number of dispensing pharmacies was
345, making it one of the market leaders. By area, it has the most pharmacies
in Hokkaido at 112, followed by Kanto and Koshinetsu at 75, and then Kinki at
53. In addition to pharmacies, the company operates nine drug stores, two
healthcare centers, and one welfare equipment rental center. Further, its subsidiary, the
Hokkaido Institute for Pharmacy Benefit, provides training services to
pharmacists and operations staff at both internal Group and external dispensing
pharmacies. ○Rental & Medical
Facilities-related Business Medical System Network
subsidiary Nihon Leben mainly develops sites for building Group pharmacies, as
well as renting buildings for medical services, car leasing and insurance
services. Further, at the same time as offering consulting services for medical
practices, it also operates medical malls that gather multiple treatment
disciplines on the same floor, medical buildings that gather clinics in one
building, and elderly housing with supportive services (herein “EHSS”). ○Catering Business Total Medical Service (TMS),
which was consolidated as a subsidiary in November 2013, and its subsidiary
Sakura Foods, engage in catering outsourcing operations within hospitals and
welfare facilities. ○Other Business Medical System Network subsidiary SMO Medisys (hereafter, SMO)
contracts with clinical trial facilities (medical institutions) as a clinical
site management organization to provide support services for clinical trials.◆Business Trends Posted new record highs in
sales, operating profit, and recurring profit (1) FY3/15 Results The FY3/15 consolidated results announced on May 1 show
consolidated sales up 14.2% YoY to ¥75,548
mn, operating profit up 26.3% YoY to ¥2,641
mn, recurring profit up 25.8% YoY to ¥2,540
mn, and net profit up 32.5% to ¥885 mn. The company posted
record highs in each of sales, operating profit, and recurring profit and it
exceeded the targets in its company plan for each item on a profits basis.Due to the effects of the
M&As and the expansion in profits at existing stores, the dispensing
pharmacy business performed strongly and posted double-digit increases in sales
and profits. The pharmaceutical network business and rental & medical
facility-related business also contributed to the increase in profits. The COGs ratio declined from 65.6% in FY3/14 to 62.3%, while the
SG&A ratio rose from 31.2% to 34.2% however, this was mainly in the
dispensing pharmacy business, where, to ease increased burden from rises in the
consumption tax (a cause for increases in the SG&A ratio), the impact from
adjustments in the drug price revision percentages, aimed at expanding drug
price margins (a cause for the lower COGs ratio) was significant. *Also, due to the expansion of the
dispensing pharmacy business, the staff cost ratio rose from 18.2% to 19.2%,
which was a factor behind the increase in the SG&A ratio.Profits increased in the
pharmaceutical network business from the highly profitable ordering fee income (2) Trends by Operating
Segment ○Pharmaceutical Network
Business Consolidated sales from the pharmaceutical network business
declined 1.0% YoY to ¥2,814 mn, while operating
profit rose 5.1% YoY to ¥1,549 mn. While system sales
declined, profits still increased due to the gain in revenue from the highly
profitable ordering fee income.As of the end of March 2015, the number of member pharmacies had
increased by 37 stores year-on-year to 1,200, meaning the pace of increase was
sluggish. However, the impact from the withdrawal of one large trading
counterparty (230 stores) group was significant. But if this impact is
excluded, stores increased by 267, which is a record increase. The
pharmaceutical order volume was also affected by the withdrawal of this one
large trading counterparty and declined 13.1% YoY to ¥97,719 mn. But despite this, revenue from ordering fee income
increased 7.4% to ¥1,601 mn. This was because the
ordering fee for this customer was at a comparatively low level compared to
that for the small and medium-sized member pharmacies.The factors behind the
increase in the number of member pharmacies include that the business
environment of small and medium-sized dispensing pharmacies is becoming more
and more severe each year and therefore the benefits from becoming a member of
the company’s network are growing stronger. In
addition, in January 2015 the company formed a business alliance with Fuyo
General Lease and newly launched a pharmaceutical purchase price repayment
service, which had a considerable effect on member numbers (the details are
given below). ○Dispensing Pharmacy
Business Sales in the dispensing
pharmacy business increased 13.9% to ¥71,743
mn and operating profit rose 29.2% to ¥2,377
mn. The status of store openings shows that dispensing pharmacies increased by
24 compared with the end of the previous fiscal year, to 345 stores (10 stores
were newly opened, 27 acquired through M&As, and 13 were closed), while
drug stores declined by 3 to 9 stores (3 stores were opened and 6 were closed).
In addition to the expansion in the number of stores that was
mainly from M&As, a factor behind the higher sales was the steady
performance of sales at existing stores, which rose 1.7% YoY. The number of
prescriptions on an existing store basis grew 0.7% due to factors such as the
influenza outbreak, while the prescription unit price also increased 1.0%
because of the effects of the increase in the incentive points to promote the
use of generics and the extension in the number of prescription days. The ratio
of pharmacies eligible for generic dispensing systems incentives by handling
generics had risen from 50.2% at the beginning of fiscal year to 77.1% by the
end of the fiscal year.In addition to the effects of
the M&As, a major factor behind the increase in operating profits was the
improvement in earnings at existing stores. Existing stores’ operating profit increased ¥493 mn YoY, but within this amount, around half was from the
effects of the rise in the acquisition of incentive points from promoting the
handling of generics and from home care, and also from the improved
productivity from optimizing staff deployments at each store. Also, in Q4
FY3/14, the adjustment difference from pricing negotiations with pharmaceutical
wholesalers was recorded as an expense (¥588 mn, which was the amount for two years from April 2012), and
the normalization of this item is thought to have contributed around ¥200 mn to ¥300 mn to the higher profits. ○Rental & Medical
Facility-related Business Sales from the rental and
medical facility-related business rose 15.2% YoY to ¥1,517 mn, with an operating profit of ¥25 mn (versus a ¥39 mn loss in the previous
term). The number of tenancy agreements at Wisteria Kiyota (Kiyota Ward,
Sapporo City), which is an “EHSS” (elderly housing with supportive services) that commenced
operations in May 2013, was 60 units out of a total of 75 units at the end of
March, a steady increase from the 47 units at the end of the previous fiscal
year, and this was a factor behind the improved earnings. ○Catering Business,
Other Business In the catering business,
which was added by way of the consolidation of TMS as a subsidiary in November
2013, sales increased 218.3% YoY to ¥1,932
mn, while the operating loss was ¥13 mn (versus a loss of ¥12 mn in the previous fiscal year). This major increase in sales
was because it only entered the scope of consolidation for 4 months in FY3/14,
while the slightly higher loss was mainly the result of the rise in the
purchase prices of foods. The other business (clinical trial support operations) was
affected by the delays in securing new projects and sales declined 55.2% YoY to
¥182 mn and the operating loss was ¥76 mn (compared to a profit of ¥10 mn in the previous fiscal year).◆Medium-term Management
Plan Announced a new medium-term
plan targeting sales of ¥105 bn in FY3/18 (1) Outline of the Medium-term
Management Plan The company announced its 4th Medium-term Management Plan at the
same time as its results announcement. In a situation where the issues of
providing medical care and nursing are becoming increasingly serious because of
the aging of society, the company is focusing on “expanding the pharmaceutical network” and “enhancing the functions of
community pharmacies,” and its policy is to aim to
achieve further growth as a company that supports local community medical care.The company’s management targets for the
plan’s final year of FY3/18 are sales of ¥105,000 mn and recurring profit of ¥3,800 mn. Its core businesses of the pharmaceutical network
business and the dispensing pharmacy business will continue to be the driving
force behind its growth in earnings.○Pharmaceutical Network
Business In the pharmaceutical network business, the company plans to
greatly increase the number of member pharmacies in the network from 1,200 in
FY3/15 to 2,200 in FY3/18. Due to this increase, the forecast is that sales
will rise from the FY3/15 result of ¥2,814
mn to ¥3,600 mn and operating profit from ¥1,549 mn to ¥2,200 mn. Within this amount,
as a source of earnings it expects revenue from ordering fee income to grow
from the FY3/15 result of ¥1,601 mn to ¥2,500 mn, for an annual growth rate of 16%.The result for the last three
years in terms of the increase in the number of member pharmacies in the
networks is 346 stores. But when the effect of the withdrawal of one large
trading counterparty (230 stores) is removed, this result becomes 576 stores
and the company plans to accelerate the pace of the increase. In the context of
the measures to keep down medical costs, the business environment of small and
medium-sized dispensing pharmacies has become more severe than ever before,
which is proving to be a fair wind for the company’s network services business. In addition, the two services
created out of the business alliances it announced in 2015 are accelerating the
pace of the increase in the number of member pharmacies. The first service is the “pharmaceutical purchase price repayment service” that it launched from February 2015 following its business
alliance with Fuyo General Lease. The payment period for the pharmaceutical
purchase price was determined as two months as a condition to become a member
of the company’s pharmaceutical network services. But as
it is normally three months for practically all small and medium-sized
pharmacies, when these pharmacies become members they incur temporary costs due
to this shortening of the payment period. Therefore, to eliminate this problem,
the company developed a service in which Fuyo General Lease pays in bulk the
pharmaceutical purchase prices of the members during the first month of
membership on behalf of the customers, who can repay the amount advanced to
them in installment payments.Since this service was
launched in February, in the three months to the end of April the number of new
members has increased by 6 corporations and 68 stores, which greatly exceeds
the usual pace of increase, and the effects of this service are materializing
immediately. For pharmaceutical wholesalers, this service reduces the time for
the recovery of trade receivables and it is attracting attention as a service
that benefits all those involved. It is expected that it will further increase
the number of member pharmacies in the future. The second service is the “dead stock exchange service (immobile stock liquidation),” for customers of EM SYSTEMS, with which the company announced a
business alliance in April 2015. EM SYSTEMS is a major receipt computer system
company that has as its customers around 16,000, or about 30%, of all domestic
dispensing pharmacies, and this new dead stock exchange service function is
provided as an additional function to its existing system. Pharmacies’ immobile stock is said to be
approximately 0.2% of their annual sales. As the market scale is around ¥10 trillion, it is calculated that each year, the entire
industry generates an inventory disposal loss of ¥20 billion. In the company’s network, the immobile stock is at a level of 0.07%, which is
one third of the industry average. The dead stock exchange service allows
member pharmacies to exchange dead stock at each of their stores, efficiently
reducing pharmaceutical disposal losses. Supposing a store with sales of ¥100 mn, which could generate an inventory disposal loss of ¥200,000, uses this service, its disposal loss would shrink to ¥60,000 to ¥70,000, improving its profit
margin by 0.1%.The dead stock exchange
service is provided free to pharmacies when they join the company’s network, but if an EM SYSTEMS’ customer wishes only to use this service, the company is
expected to collect a few percent of the inventory turnover as commission.
Therefore, although the direct impact on the company’s earnings will be negligible, it is entirely possible that the
use of this service will result in an increase in members of its pharmaceutical
network service. The launch of this service is
scheduled for April 2016, but to prepare the company’s network system for the increase in member pharmacies, it plans
to increase the system’s processing capacity by 300%
(invest ¥200 mn in the system over three years). ○Dispensing Pharmacy
Business In the dispensing pharmacy
business, the company plans to expand the number of stores from 345 at the end
of the previous fiscal year to 500 by FY3/18. From this increase, it is
forecast that sales will rise from the FY3/15 result of ¥71,743 mn to ¥99,500 mn and operating profit
from ¥2,377 mn to ¥3,000 mn. The operating profit margin is expected to fall
slightly, from 3.3% in FY3/15 to 3.0%, but this is in anticipation of the
continued severe business environment in the dispensing pharmacies industry.
However, in actuality, there remains plenty of room for improvements, such as
improving the productivity of stores, and it is entirely possible for the
company to maintain or improve its profitability. Enhancing the local community
medical system has become more important alongside the aging of society, and in
this context, the role played by dispensing pharmacies is expected to become
increasingly large. Based on this notion, the company has been improving the
quality of its services in its existing stores, including medical safety,
customer reception, medication counseling, home medical care, and reductions in
waiting time. At the same time, its policy is to continue to develop new stores
as next-generation pharmacies that will provide customers with a full package
of “medical care, nursing, and preventative
functions (community care functions)”.
The company is also aiming to
improve the profitability of existing stores through constructing medical malls
by attracting medical institutions to existing stores by further strengthening
its support for doctors’ medical practices. Moreover,
it intends to achieve the plan’s targets by actively
advancing M&As and related strategies focused upon the Tokyo metropolitan
area and Kansai, Aichi, and Fukuoka, which are the areas where demand for
medical care for the elderly is expected to grow. Forecast to post double-digit
increase in sales and profits in this year (2) FY3/16 Results Outlook The FY3/16 consolidated results outlook is for double digit
increases in both sales and profit, with sales up 13.0% to ¥85,353 mn, operating profit up 14.9% to ¥3,036 mn, recurring profit up 14.2% to ¥2,900 mn, and net profit up 16.3% to ¥1,030 mn. The outlook by operating segment is shown below.○Pharmaceutical Network
Business In the pharmaceutical network
business, sales are expected to increase 8.2% YoY to ¥3,045 mn and operating profit to rise 9.1% to ¥1,690 mn. Compared with the end of the previous fiscal year, the
number of network members is forecast to increase by 285 to 1,485 pharmacies.
As was previously described, the pace of this increase is being accelerated by
the launch of new services, and attention will focus on how they are developed
in the future. ○Dispensing Pharmacy
Business In the dispensing pharmacy
business, sales are forecast to increase 11.9% YoY to ¥80,252 mn and operating profit to rise 9.0% to ¥2,591 mn. Compared with the end of the previous fiscal year, the
number of dispensing pharmacies is expected to increase by 55 to 400. Within
these 55 pharmacies, 50 will be acquisitions from M&As, and they are
forecast to contribute around ¥3,500 mn to sales. Therefore,
it is possible that the results will change depending on trends in M&As.
Currently, although there are M&A projects, prices have risen slightly and
the company’s policy is to conduct M&As while
investigating their profitability. Also, it expects sales from existing stores
to increase 0.7% YoY, which is a somewhat conservative forecast. Profitability is forecast to
decline slightly, but an upside is also expected, for example from the measures
the company is advancing for generics and the full-scale introduction of the
dispensing headquarters’ system that will contribute
to improved productivity in clerical work. The dispensing headquarters’ system has been in the process of being introduced sequentially
since December 2014 and the company plans to have completed its introduction at
all stores by the fall of 2015. Concerning pharmacists, at the
end of March 2015, including temporary staff, there was a 1,102 strong
structure (a year-on-year increase of 93 staff members). The number of new
graduates hired in the spring of 2015 was 97, which is double the 47 hired in
the previous fiscal year, and the company plans to hire around 100 in the
spring of 2016. ○Rental & Medical
Facility-related Business Sales in the rental & medical facility-related business are
expected to be up 52.5% YoY to ¥2,314 mn and operating profit
to be up 318.7% to ¥106 mn. The number of tenancy
agreements for the “EHSS” property “Wisteria Kiyota” had grown steadily, to reach 64 units by the end of April. And,
work is scheduled to begin on “Wisteria Otaru Inaho” (Otaru City, Hokkaido, 81 units) and “Wisteria Senri Chuo”
(Toyonaka City, Osaka, 84 units), with the goal of completing these facilities
during FY3/16.○Catering Business &
Other Business Sales in the catering business
are expected to rise 15.6% YoY to ¥2,233
mn and for the operating loss to be ¥38
mn. The acquisition of new projects, including a rehabilitation hospital
(Tokyo) will result in this double-digit increase in sales. But in terms of
profits, a slight operating loss will continue due to the increase in start-up
preparation costs. However, the outlook is for the operating loss to turn into
an operating profit from FY3/17 as these new projects get on track. In the other business, sales are forecast to increase 51.7% YoY
to ¥276 mn, and the plan is for it to
contribute to profits through an operating profit of ¥7 mn (versus a loss of ¥76
mn in the previous fiscal year). In March 2015, the company announced a
business alliance with clinical support services major Sogo Rinsho
Holdings<2399> and earnings are expected to recover as it acquires new
projects and improves operational efficiency through the mutual cooperation
with Sogo Rinsho Holdings.◆Financial Position Continuing a business
expansion strategy that takes advantage of financial leverage under the low
interest rate regime The company’s financial position at the end of FY3/15 was that total assets
increased ¥2,473 mn YoY to ¥45,587 mn, with the major factors behind this increase being
that while cash and deposits and trade receivables declined by ¥607 mn and \317 mn respectively, this was offset by increases in
stock of ¥1,116 mn, fixed assets of ¥1,273 mn, and goodwill of ¥961 mn. Conversely, liabilities
increased ¥1,690 mn YoY to ¥39,451 mn. Interest-bearing liabilities increased ¥731 mn and accounts payable ¥800 mn. Additionally, net assets rose ¥783 mn YoY to ¥6,135 mn, mainly as a result
of increases in retained earnings. Within management indicators, the equity ratio improved 0.8 of a
percentage point to 12.7%. The company’s
ratio of interest-bearing liabilities remains at a high level, and it is
continuing its management policy of promoting a strategy of business expansion
that takes advantage of financial leverage under current low interest rates.
But, going forward, by shifting “EHSS” off the balance sheet, the company’s idea is to increase capital efficiency and keep down interest
bearing debt in the range of ¥20 bn, and it forecasts a
capital adequacy ratio of around 20% in its Medium-term Management Plan.◆Shareholder Returns The company’s basic policy is to return profits to shareholders through
dividends and dividend growth is expected in the future The company’s shareholder return policy is
based on rewarding shareholders by way of dividends. Its basic policy is to pay
stable dividends that reflect the company’s results, after securing sufficient internal reserves to
strengthen its financial position and expand operations. The company plans a
payout ratio in the order of 20.9% for FY3/16, with a dividend of \9, which is
an increase of \1 on the previous year. Divided growth can be expected if it
continues to increase its profits in the future. 報告內容僅供參考，不得作為任何投資引用之唯一依據，且其投資風險及決定應由投資人自行判斷並自負損益。