UTGroupCo.,Ltd.(JP-2146)TSEJASDAQDifferentiatingitselffromitspeersbyanindustry-leadingemployeeretentionrateanda“start-to-finishoutsourcedproductionservice”
  2015-08-03 提供機構：FISCO 作者：FISCO 點閱次數：17   

UT
Group<2146> primarily operates a manufacturing dispatch and outsourcing service
business. The group consists of a holding company and beneath it the
subsidiaries that carry out the actual businesses, including an engineer
business that dispatches design, development, and construction engineers. In
the semiconductor field, which is where its major clients are found, it is the
industry leader in terms of the number of manufacturing outsourced and
dispatched employees. The group has achieved the No.1 employee retention rate
in the industry by measures including its early introduction of permanent
employment and a skill-based wage system, and is achieving growth by
differentiating itself from its industry peers through its independent business
model of a “start-to-finish outsourced production service.” In December 2003,
its predecessor Nihon Aim was the first company in the manufacturing dispatch
and outsourcing services industry to be listed on the JASDAQ market and one of
its objectives was “to create a company that has its employees as a major
shareholder.” In
its financial results for FY3/15, the group achieved double-digit increases in
sales and operating profit, with sales up 18.5% YoY to ¥36,478mn, and operating
profit up 22.4% to ¥2,232mn. It achieved a record high in outsourcing sales
and, in addition, secured an increase in both sales and operating profit for
the fifth consecutive fiscal year since FY3/11. This was because it was able to
expand its share of existing clients thanks to the growth in demand following
the recovery of manufacturing industry and its system of hiring 500 people per
month, and also because new orders trended strongly, particularly in the
automobile field. The
group’s targets for FY3/16 are to once again record an increase in sales and
operating profit, with sales to rise 9.7% YoY to ¥40,000mn and operating profit
7.5% to ¥2,400mn. As in FY3/15, the growth in share for existing clients and in
new orders is expected to be the driving force behind this improved
performance. When considering factors such as the fact that a) sales in both
FY3/15 Q3 (October to December) and Q4 (February to March), which will be the
base for FY3/16, exceeded ¥9,500mn, b) that the positive contribution of System
Revolution Co., Ltd., which has been made into a subsidiary, was not included
in the targets, and c) if the revisions to the worker dispatch law that were
recently discussed in the Diet comes into effect, it could have a positive
contribution on the group’s results, at FISCO we think the group’s targets look
conservative and there remains room for improvement above them, and it should
have it sights set on a new record for outsourcing operating profit (¥2,823mn
in FY3/08). The group is developing its strategy based upon its medium-term
management plan (FY3/12 to FY3/16), in which it sets out its vision of
“Becoming Japan’s No.1 outsourcing provider in quality and volume.” In
addition, in July 2015 the group announced its new medium-term management plan,
with FY3/17 as its first fiscal year. Its main content includes setting out its
new vision of “Creating work for all of Japan,” and in order to drive growth
the strategy it has evolved of accelerating M&As of industry peers and
training facilities, and using M&As to participate in industries where it
can utilize its strengths, and it presents a path toward achieving operating
profit of ¥10,000mn and building a structure of 20,000 active employees. FISCO
will pay attention to how these aspects develop in the future.◆Corporate Overview After the financial crisis,
it decided to return to dispatching engineers in the manufacturing industry (1) Corporate history The
group, which reached its 20th anniversary this year, was founded in April 1995
based on the philosophy of President, Representative Director & CEO Yoichi
Wakayama of contributing to both people looking for a job and companies wanting
people. The group’s corporate history can be categorized into three periods: a)
its founding period up to 2001, b) its first growth period up to 2009, in which
it adopted a niche strategy of specializing in the semiconductor field, and c)
its second growth period from 2010, in which it returned to the manufacturing
outsourcing industry in order to escape from its reliance on semiconductors by
converting to a market leader strategy. a)
The founding period (1995 to 2001) The origins of the group were the founding in April 1995 in
Yokohama of Aim CIC Company for the business of dispatching personnel for
in-plant work. In July 1996, Aim CIC was renamed Nihon Aim Co., Ltd. Since its
founding, it has focused on the manufacturing field, and one after another it
adopted employment systems that ran contrary to the prevailing wisdom in the
industry at that time, such as permanent employment, 100% employee
participation in social insurance and a skill-based wage system. In such ways,
it was successfully able to increase its employee retention rate and production
efficiency. Furthermore, it created an independent business model in which
instead of dispatching individuals, it dispatches entire teams to provide its
start-to-finish outsourced production service in which the team is responsible
for an entire process, and implemented various reforms of employees’ ways of
working. These initiatives helped to improve the management efficiency at its
corporate clients, which further increased client numbers, and established the
business foundations for its first growth stage.b) First growth stage (2001 to
2009) Due
to the collapse of the IT bubble, the performance of companies in the
manufacturing industry, which are the group’s clients, deteriorated, and so
inevitably the group’s results also worsened. In this situation, it decided to
convert to a niche, growth strategy of specializing in the semiconductor field
which requires high-level expertise and is appropriate for outsourcing work on
the unit of an entire process. In October 2002, it established the
Semiconductor Market Development Team (currently the Tsukuba Training Center),
which promotes the start-to-finish outsourced production service for
semiconductor device manufacturers and carries out planning to improve the
abilities of functional employees specializing in the semiconductor business.
These efforts bore fruit and up to 2007 prior to the Lehman Brothers’ collapse,
it had established its position as No.1 in the manufacturing outsourcing industry
in terms of number of manufacturing outsourced and dispatched employees to the
semiconductor-related industry. In April 2006, in order to advance into the
semiconductor device design business, it made a subsidiary of ARTISTA Co., Ltd.
(merged with Comm Leading Co., Ltd. in December 2011), thereby entering into
the design and development engineers dispatch business. Further,
in April 2007 it established a joint holding company called United Technology
Holdings Co., Ltd. (name changed to UT Holdings Co., Ltd. in January 2009;
changed to UT Group in July 2015) with Apex Inc., which sells used
semiconductor manufacturing equipment and provides technical services. Next, in
June 2007, Nihon Aim Co., Ltd. (name changed to UT Aim Co., Ltd in July 2012)
made a subsidiary of Micro Engineering Inc., which manufactures and sells
semiconductor manufacturing equipment, thereby entering into the business of
manufacturing and selling semiconductor equipment and accelerating its strategy
of expanding the scope of its semiconductor business. However,
it had to abandon its expansion of its semiconductor business due to the
deterioration of the performance of companies in the semiconductor industry
following the worldwide recession triggered by the Lehman Brothers’ collapse.
In June 2009, it sold Micro Engineering and then in November it sold Apex, and
decided to return to the engineer dispatch business in the manufacturing field,
which had been its business domain since its founding. In
December 2003, the group’s predecessor Nihon Aim listed on the JASDAQ market,
with one of its objectives being “to create a company that has its employees as
a major shareholder.” Incidentally, this was the first IPO of an outsourcing
company, and its formation of an employee shareholder plan was also a first for
its industry. c)
Second growth stage (2010 to the present) From
the group’s decision to return to its original business of manufacturing
outsourcing, in addition to cultivating further transactions in its main
manufacturing dispatch and outsourcing services business and expanding into
client growth fields, such as the environment and energy field, the
automobile-related field, and the housing field, it aimed to develop its
business foundations by expanding its engineer business (dispatch of design and
construction engineers). In this way, it implemented a market leader strategy
of escaping from a reliance on semiconductors and becoming the No.1 outsourcing
company, at the same time as implementing financial restructuring. Even though
its business environment was working against it, such as the shift of the
manufacturing industry overseas due to the Great East Japan Earthquake and the
strong yen, the 2012 problem*1 worked to the
advantage of the group thanks to its policy of permanent employment, and its
number of client plants increased, its results recovered, and its expansion
trend accelerated. In
order to expand its business foundations, in January 2010 the group established
Comm Leading Co., Ltd. (design and development engineers dispatch business)*2,
and then in March it established Comm Agent Co., Ltd. (distribution and retail
dispatch business)*3. In addition, in July 2013, it
acquired 81% of the shares of Panasonic Battery Engineering Co., Ltd. and made
it into a subsidiary (at the same time, its name was changed to UT Pabec Co.,
Ltd.). Further, in March 2015, with the objective of expanding its engineer
business even further, it made a subsidiary of System Revolution, which
operates a software development business*4. In March 2011, the group announced its medium-term management
plan (FY3/12 to FY3/16), in which it set out its vision of moving from being
“‘the No.1 semiconductor outsourcing service provider’ to being ‘Japan’s No.1
outsourcing company’ in terms of both quality and volume.” It presented the
path it would take toward achieving operating profit of ¥10,000mn and a
structure of 20,000 engineers from March 2017 onwards. At the same time, it
committed to achieving an EPS growth rate of 30% or more (5 year average) and a
total return ratio of 50% or more (changed from a dividend payout ratio of 30%
or more in FY3/13). Then, in July 2015, it announced its new medium-term
management plan (FY3/17 to FY3/21).Operations are mainly carried
out by teams of experienced employees organized on the unit of an entire
process (2) Businesses The group consists of the UT Group Co., Ltd. which functions as
the pure holding company for the other group companies of six consolidated
subsidiaries, which conduct the actual businesses.The two main businesses it is engaged in are the manufacturing
dispatch and outsourcing services business and the engineer business, but in
terms of financial accounting, it discloses information on one business, the
outsourcing business. In FY3/15, percentages of total sales by business were
91.3% from the manufacturing dispatch and outsourcing services business and
8.7% from the engineer business (breaking this down, 5.6% from the dispatch of
design engineers and 3.1% from the dispatch of construction engineers). Also,
percentages of sales according to client business category were 44.8% from the
semiconductor and the electronic parts field, 25.3% from the environment and
energy field, 16.0% from the automobile-related field, 6.7% from the housing
field, and 7.2% from other fields.●Manufacturing dispatch and outsourcing services business It
dispatches permanent employees and carries out outsourcing of the in-plant work
of Japanese manufacturers. Rather than dispatching individuals for the work
outsourced to it, it mainly organizes experienced employees into teams,
establishes a chain of command, and carries out the work on the unit of an
entire process (start-to-finish outsourcing). The group’s employees that carry
out the outsourcing work are called engineers and their employment forms are
divided into permanent employees following a transfer to locations nationwide
(approximately 70% of all employees) and contract employees. Its
main users are manufacturing companies in industries including semiconductor,
electronics, environment and energy, automobile, and construction and building
materials. Specifically, its main clients include the Sony Group<6758>,
the Panasonic Group <6752>, and the Toshiba Group <6502>. The
consolidated subsidiaries UT Aim and UT Pabec carry out this business. As of
the end of March 2015, it dispatched engineers to 438 plants and employed 8,597
engineers. ●Engineer
business The business involves software outsourced development;
machinery, electrical, and electronic design development (including design work
using 3D CAD); and the dispatch of construction engineers. Software development
is carried out by UT Leading and System Revolution, but the dispatch of
engineers for machinery, electrical, and electronic design development is
carried out by UT Leading alone. The construction engineer dispatch business is
carried out by UT Construction Network Co., Ltd. The main clients for software
development and the dispatch of engineers for machinery, electrical, and
electronic design development are major electronics manufacturers. Clients in
the construction engineer dispatch business include major construction companies,
primarily super general contractors. As of the end of March 2015, the group
employed 702 engineers in this business.◆The Group’s Strengths and Business Risks Has achieved the lowest
employee turnover rate in the industry through enhancing its system to develop
and train human resources (1) Strengths and competition The
group’s strengths are its systems of permanent employment and 100% employee
participation in social insurance. In addition, by introducing Job Grade, which
is a skill evaluation system on 25 levels; Entry System, in which employees can
fairly become candidates for management; and an Employee Stock Ownership Plan
(ESOP), it has achieved the lowest employee turnover rate in its industry
(specifically, its current turnover rate is around 3 to 4%, which is
significantly below the industry average of 8%). In addition, it has enhanced
its system for developing and training human resources, including through the
One UT Project (a career progression program for design engineers), the Super
Manager School (an executive training school), and MTM Training (a management
leadership development program). This is considered to be a factor behind its
ability to maintain the quality of its employees, which has been highly
evaluated by its corporate clients. Further,
another one of its strengths seems to be that it can contribute to the improved
management efficiency of its clients through the format of its outsourcing
contracts, in which a team provides a start-to-finish outsourced production
service. The
group is leveraging its strengths to differentiate itself from competitors in
the semiconductor field, which is where its main clients are located, and has
established an unshakeable position as the No.1 company in the manufacturing
outsourcing industry in terms of the number of manufacturing outsourced and
dispatched employees. On the other hand, competition is fierce for
manufacturing outsourcing in growth fields like automobiles, where the group
has been aiming to expand its business to escape from its reliance on the
semiconductor field through developing a market leader strategy. But despite
this competition, the group is steadily increasing client numbers by leveraging
its strengths. The specific competitors in this field can be said to include
Nikken Sogyo, NISSO, Outsourcing <2427>, and World Holdings<2429>. (2)
Business risks The group’s business risks can be summarized into two points; a)
its high reliance on the manufacturing and semiconductor-related industries and
b) securing human resources.As the group’s clients are in
the manufacturing industry, they are likely to be affected by fluctuations in
the macro economy, like a strong yen and the domestic economic climate.
Further, while the percentage of sales from the semiconductor field is
declining due to the progress the group is making in its strategy of escaping
from its reliance on the semiconductor-related field, it still provides around
40% of sales, so the group could be affected by changes in the performance of
its semiconductor-related corporate clients. The group's source of revenues
is its human resources and securing them is its biggest challenge. It may not
be able to secure the engineers it requires due to conditions in the labor
market. Or if its employee retention rate declines, this may have a negative
impact on earnings due to an increase in hiring expenses. In addition, its
hiring system in its main manufacturing dispatch and outsourcing services
business is founded upon hiring locally in each region, so if it has difficulties
hiring in one region, it will have to hire from other regions and will incur
relocation expenses, which may cause profitability to decline. In order to expand its engineer business, the group began hiring
new graduates from among the graduates of March 2014. It hired 240 graduates in
April 2014 and 364 graduates in April 2015. It plans to hire 500 graduates in
April 2016 (300 engineers and 200 manufacturing dispatch and other employees).◆Financial Results Trends Achieved a record high in
outsourcing sales and the fifth consecutive fiscal year of increased sales and
profits (1) FY3/15 financial results In its financial results for FY3/15, the group achieved
double-digit increases in both sales and operating profit, with sales up 18.5%
YoY to ¥36,478mn and operating profit up 22.4% to ¥2,232mn. In addition to
achieving a record high in outsourcing sales, it recorded increases in sales
and profits for the fifth consecutive fiscal year since FY3/11.The growth in sales was due to
the strong performance of the manufacturing dispatch and outsourcing services
business against the backdrop of the expansion in demand for dispatching and
outsourcing services following the improvement in the performance of the
manufacturing industry. In addition, the dispatch of design and construction
engineers increased and the number of client plants rose by 25 compared to the
end of the previous fiscal period, to 438 plants. Another factor behind the
higher sales was that the group’s number of engineers reached its highest ever
total, of 9,299 engineers. On the other hand, the factors behind the increase in operating
profit (up ¥408mn YoY) were the increase in profits (¥1,003mn) due to higher
sales from an expansion in share and new orders, and also an increase in profits
(¥327mn) due to improvements in the gross profit margin (FY3/14 17.6% → 18.5%)
following improvements in unit prices, and growth in overtime and a withdrawal
from low-profitability business offices, which meant gross profit increased
(¥1,330mn). These factors outweighed a decline in profits from the increase in
selling, general and administrative expenses (¥923mn), partially due to higher
hiring-related expenses because of proactive hiring activities in order to
build the foundations of a system for 500 new hires a month (¥461mn).Compared to the initial
targets announced in May 2014 (sales ¥32,000mn, operating profit ¥2,500mn),
sales exceeded the target but operating profit was slightly below it. The
reasons why sales exceeded the target were the expansion in share following
additional orders from existing clients, particularly in the manufacturing
dispatch and outsourcing services business and the engineer dispatch business,
and also the new orders from automobile-related clients. Conversely, the
reasons why operating profit was below the target were negative factors including
a) profits in the re-employment support business were below target (¥200mn
below the target), b) an increase in expenses to hire new graduates (up ¥250mn),
and c) an increase in sales-related expenses (up ¥50mn). However, both sales
and operating profit exceeded the revised targets announced in February 2015
(sales ¥36,000mn, operating profit ¥2,000mn). (2)
Financial conditions As
of the end of March 2015, total assets had increased ¥4,369mn from the end of
the previous fiscal period to ¥16,427mn. Breaking this down, current assets
increased ¥3,997mn from the end of the previous fiscal period due to the rise
in cash & deposits (¥3,050mn) that occurred in conjunction with the
increases in profits and long-term debt, while accounts receivable also rose
(¥867mn). Fixed assets increased ¥380mn from the end of the previous fiscal
period because of factors including the rise in goodwill (¥787mn) following
software development company System Revolution becoming a subsidiary in March. Liabilities
increased ¥3,904mn from the end of the previous fiscal period to ¥12,803mn.
Specifically, in conjunction with the improved results, each of accrued
expenses, accrued income tax, and accrued consumption tax increased, and
consequentially current liabilities rose ¥2,864mn from the end of the previous
fiscal period. Long-term liabilities grew ¥1,040mn from the end of the previous
fiscal period. This was because, while corporate bonds declined, long-term debt
increased (¥1,444mn) as the group procured funds at low interest rates in
preparation for the deployment of its medium- to long-term strategy, in
addition to the M&A of System Revolution. Net assets rose ¥465mn from the end of the previous fiscal
period to ¥3,624mn. This was mainly due to the increase in retained earnings of
¥416mn from the end of the previous fiscal period following the improved
results.Due to the increase in long-term debt, shareholders’ equity
ratio and D/E ratio (interest-bearing debt divided by shareholders’ equity),
which are indicators of financial strength, slightly worsened. But due to the
improved results, net cash (the amount obtained from subtracting
interest-bearing debt from cash & deposits) returned to a surplus, and when
also considering that the objective of long-term debt is to procure funds for
M&As for business expansion, it is considered there has been no change to
the improvement trend. Conversely, ROE and operating margin, which are
indicators of profitability, continued to improve in conjunction with the
group’s better results.Higher sales and profits are
expected in FY3/16, but the conservative targets mean there is room for even
further improvement (3) FY3/16 group targets The group targets for FY3/16 are an increase in both sales and
operating profit, with sales up 9.7% YoY to ¥40,000mn and operating profit up
7.5% to ¥2,400mn.The main factors behind the increase in sales are forecast to be
the expansion in share of existing clients and the increase in new orders, the
same as in the previous fiscal period. On the other hand, for the increase in
operating profit, it is expected that the decrease factors, like a ¥632mn
increase in selling, general and administrative expenses, partially due to the
rise in expenses to stabilize the system to hire 500 people a month (¥400mn),
will be exceeded by the increase in gross profit (¥800mn) from the higher sales
from the expansion in share of existing clients and the increase in new orders
(gross profit up ¥640mn), and also the improvement in the sales profit ratio
(FY3/15 18.5% → 18.9%) due to higher unit prices and other factors (gross
profit up ¥160mn). The group commented in its results briefing that its
forecasts for FY3/16 are conservative based on the downward revision of its
forecasts in the past.FISCO considers that the group’s targets are conservative and
there is room for it to achieve even higher results. This is because of
improved performance of the manufacturing industry thanks to economic recovery,
the return of production to Japan thanks to the weak yen and other factors, and
improvements in the business environment. We also consider them to be
conservative because a) sales in both FY3/15 Q3 (October to December) and Q4
(February to March), which will be the base for FY3/16, exceeded ¥9,500mn, b)
the positive contribution of System Revolution Co., Ltd., which has been made
into a subsidiary, was not included in the targets, and c) if revisions to the
worker dispatch law that were recently discussed in the Diet come into effect,
it could have a positive contribution on the group’s results.◆Medium-term Management Plan Steadily expanding its
businesses through M&As and other methods, and has also announced its new
medium-term plan In
its current medium-term management plan announced in March 2011, the group has
set out its vision of changing from being the “No.1 semiconductor service
provider” to being “Japan’s No.1 outsourcing service provider in quality and
volume” (where “quality” means to establish a working environment where its
employees can work vigorously, and “volume” means to be the No. 1 in size in
the manufacturing outsourcing industry). Based on the outsourcing track record
it had cultivated up to that time, it also set out its strategy of aiming to
expand into the growth fields of the environment and energy and to create high-quality
employment opportunities and more opportunities for people to advance their
careers. During the period of executing the medium-term management plan, the
group presented a path toward realizing operating profit of ¥10,000mn and a
structure of 20,000 employees from March 2017. At the same time, it committed
to two points; that it was aiming for an EPS growth rate of 30% or more (5 year
targeted average) and a total return ratio of 50% or more (changed from a
dividend payout ratio of 30% or more in FY3/13) The
group’s fundamental strategy at the time it announced its medium-term
management plan can be summarized in the following three points: to expand
share of existing clients (improve profit productivity and achieve stable
growth), uncover client needs, and horizontally develop permanent employees
(namely, build foundations so that one third of operating profit is from
businesses other than the manufacturing dispatch and outsourcing business). It
has broadly achieved its initial objectives within its plan, and it has revised
its strategy to the following four specific points; growth in the manufacturing
dispatch and outsourcing services business, making the engineer dispatch
business into a core business, M&As and new business start-ups, and the enhancement
of the internal management base. (1)
Growth in the manufacturing dispatch and outsourcing services business It
intends to grow its share of business with existing clients (strategy to
increase the group’s share of dispatches per plant), expand market shares of
sales and hiring within regions by implementing a regional dominant strategy
(conduct sales and hiring upon dividing the country into five blocks and build
a structure to be No.1 in each region in terms of sales and hiring), and
construct a hiring structure in order to stably secure 500 new hires per month
(in FY3/15 it put in place a structure for 500 hires, but it is aiming for 600
to 700 hires in the future). (2)
Make the engineer dispatch business into a core business It
is cultivating its engineer dispatch business to be an earnings pillar second
only to its main manufacturing dispatch and outsourcing services business by
establishing an infrastructure for hiring, expanding share in markets with high
demand, and conducting employee education and training. In addition to new
hiring, it is aiming to effectively secure and retain engineers through its
One-UT Project. (3)
M&As and new business start-ups In order to further accelerate its growth engine, it intends to
pursue M&As and business start-ups. For example, making System Revolution a
subsidiary in March was one part of this strategy.(4) Enhancement of the
internal management base In
addition to aiming to improve operational efficiency by changing the system to
prevent workload from concentrating too much on specific people by promoting
the building of a framework for internal backbone work, it is also making a
concerted effort to promote the training and development of all employees. In addition, in July 2015 the group announced its new
medium-term management plan with FY03/17 as its first year. The main content of
this plan includes its new vision of “Creating work for all of Japan,” and it
presents an evolved strategy and a path toward achieving operating profit of
¥10,000mn and building a structure of 20,000 active employees. Also, in order
to drive growth, it will accelerate M&As of industry peers and training
facilities, and participate in industries where it can leverage its strengths
through M&As. FISCO will be keeping a close watch on future developments.◆Returns to Shareholders The basic policy for returns
to shareholders is to target a total return ratio of 50% or more The
group regards returning profits to shareholders to be an important management
issue. Its basic policy is to target a total return ratio (the sum of dividends
paid and share buybacks as a ratio of consolidated net income) of 50% or more
(changed in its medium-term management plan in FY3/13 from targeting a dividend
payout ratio of 30% or more). Looking
at its track record of returning profits to shareholders since FY3/11 from the
data it disclosed in its medium-term management plan, we see that it paid
dividends up to FY3/14 and, in accordance with its target, the dividend payout
ratio was 30% or more (since FY3/13, it has targeted a total return ratio of
50% or more). However in FY3/15 it decided that it would not pay dividends and
instead decided in February that it would spend ¥1,000mn to acquire its own
shares (scheduled acquisition period from February 13, 2015, to February 12,
2016) through a purchase of 3,000,000 shares (upper limit). In actuality, by
June 11 it had acquired 1,885,800 of its own shares at an acquisition cost of
¥1,000mn, for a total return ratio of 85.6%. As of June 30, the group had resolved
to retire 1,885,900 of its own shares (4.84% of outstanding shares before the
retirement). Upon calculating the FY3/15 total return ratio based on this, it
comes to 85.6%. As of the end of May, in this share buyback it had acquired
1,079,500 of its own shares at an acquisition cost of ¥557.2mn. 報告內容僅供參考，不得作為任何投資引用之唯一依據，且其投資風險及決定應由投資人自行判斷並自負損益。