Interspace(JP-2122)TSEMothersReducingunprofitablesocialmedia,earningstorecoverfromthesecondhalf
  2015-08-03 提供機構：FISCO 作者：FISCO 點閱次數：15   

Interspace
<2122> operates in the Internet Advertising (Affiliate) and Media
businesses with a focus on affiliate advertising. In addition, the company has
launched affiliate service businesses in Southeast Asian countries such as
Indonesia, Thailand and Vietnam, and plans to continue to focus on its overseas
business in the future. The
consolidated results for H1 FY9/15 (October 2014 - March 2015) are strong,
showing a sales increase of 15.6% year-on-year and sales of ¥9,106mn due to
expansion of the Internet Advertising (Affiliate) Business. However, due to HR
cost increases, startup costs for international operations and poor performance
in the social media app business, operating profit fell by 75.2% to ¥111mn. Full-year
results for FY9/15 are expected to show a y-o-y increase in sales of 11.0% to
¥18,630mn, and operating profit is expected to fall by 58.5% to ¥323mn. In the
Internet Advertising (Affiliate) Business, in addition to the expansion of
affiliate advertising, profit margins will improve through strengthening and
expanding service sales and cross-selling. In addition, in the Media Business,
the company’s policy is to reduce the unprofitable social media business,
reducing staff by 30 people, corresponding to about half of the employees, in
order to improve profitability by streamlining the business. The company has set the targets of sales of ¥25,000mn and
operating profit of ¥1,500mn in its mid-term plan. In the domestic Internet
Advertising (Affiliate) Business, in addition to the expansion of affiliate
advertising, double-digit annual growth is expected through the development of
new services such as native advertising. On the other hand, in the Media
Business, in addition to the development of new media following the information
site for moms, "mamastadium", the company will proceed to turn around
the business by strategically transforming the game development business.◆Business Description Leverage profits from Internet Advertising to nurture the
Media Business The
company’s businesses are divided into the Internet Advertising (Affiliate)
Business, focusing on affiliate advertising, and the Media Business. Looking at
recent sales and operating profit, over 90% of total sales were accounted for
by the Internet Advertising (Affiliate) Business. In addition, operating profit
earned by the Internet Advertising (Affiliate) Business is able to continuously
absorb Media Business losses. The Interspace Group consists of seven subsidiaries: more games
Co., Ltd. (which operates a social media apps business) is the main subsidiary,
with 2 further advertising business related domestic subsidiaries, Dennou
Koukokusha and Ciagram Co., Ltd. Overseas, the company has Internet advertising
subsidiaries in China, Indonesia and Thailand, and in April 2015 it established
a JV with a local partner in Vietnam (49% share).More than 400,000 affiliate partners, strong in finance
and insurance sectors (1) Internet Advertising
(Affiliate) Business The
company’s Internet Advertising (Affiliate) Business is mainly engaged in
affiliate advertising, and in addition to offering SEO*1,
listing advertisements, and DSP*2 advertisements,
recently started offering native advertising*3.
With most of its sales coming from affiliate advertising, the company has
become a major player in the affiliate service sector. Affiliate advertising uses pay-per-click-based Internet
advertising that enables advertisers to compensate operators for the number of
final product purchases, document requests and other sales from advertisements
posted on its websites (partner sites), email magazines and other electronic
media. In affiliate advertising, the company provides affiliate programs in its
role as an intermediary between advertisers and website operators. The company
records advertising fees provided by advertisers as sales. These include
commission fees received by the company’s partner sites, which are posted as sales
costs.Affiliate programs are
easy-to-use tools provided by companies that enable operators to place
advertisements on their own websites. The company developed “ACCESSTRADE"
in 2001 and it has been used in more than 400,000 partner sites as of the end
of March 2015. As shown in the graph, the
company’s sales by industry for Q2 FY9/15 (January to March 2015) show finance/
insurance leading at 30%+, with e-commerce next at 20%+ - these two industries
comprise over half of sales. The next largest industry is SFA (Store Front
Affiliates) with around 20%. Store Front Affiliate (SFA) is an affiliate advertising service
marketed to actual brick-and-mortar stores. Provided primarily to mobile phone
retail outlets, SFA services enable sales staff to recommend
advertiser-provided content apps and services to mobile phone purchasers, for
which commissions are paid when these apps are downloaded or services commence.
The ability of sales staff to offer products directly to customers makes SFA a
highly cost-effective advertising service for advertisers. The company’s
services form an industry leading network with about 11,000 stores contracted.
It should be noted that SFA sales are closely correlated with sales trends of
mobile phones.Expanding operation of mamamedia, its own media for moms
and developing native apps (2) Media Business The Media Business focuses on media advertising services that
sell advertising space on the company-operated community site for mothers,
mamastadium, and the social media apps business managed by the company’s
subsidiary, more games. In addition to developing apps used in dating
simulation games marketed mainly to women, more games also creates game content
for the official websites of telecommunications carriers and native apps.◆Earnings Trends HR increases and poor performance in social games led to
poor performance in Q2 (1) Results for H1 FY9/15 The
first half consolidated results of FY9/15 (October 2014 - March 2015) announced
on May 12 showed sales of ¥9,106mn, an increase of 15.6% y-o-y, operating
profit of ¥111mn, down 75.2%, recurring profit of ¥117mn, down 74.0%, and
first-half net profit of ¥1mn, down 99.2%. From the start of the period the company expected a decline in
profits due mainly to increased HR costs associated with the increase of
personnel, advertising expenses, and increase in development costs. However,
due to payments to partners rising more than expected in the Internet
Advertising (Affiliate) Business, and revenue in the Media Business from new social
games deteriorating the company faced a downturn. The drop in first-half net
profit appears larger because the company does not adopt the consolidated tax
return system, and deficits at subsidiaries have affected the result.(2) Internet Advertising (Affiliate)
Business In the Internet Advertising (Affiliate) Business, sales
increased by 21.3% y-o-y to ¥8,731mn and operating profit fell by 60.0% to
¥171mn. Regarding sales, although SFA fell due to sluggish mobile phone sales,
the trend in the company’s main area of affiliate services was positive,
focused on finance and e-commerce. In particular, in e-commerce for health
food, cosmetics and fashion, sales grew significantly by 60% compared to the
previous period. Other advertising services also showed a positive trend due to
affiliate service cross-selling and the start of native advertising.On the other hand, the fall in operating profit was caused by
increased HR and hiring costs due to the strengthening of personnel (domestic
+19 people, overseas +22 people), and partner pay-per-click payments increasing
more than expected. In the current fiscal year, in order to scale-up its
affiliate services, the company increased its share of media publishing,
focused on the financial sector. However, the company suffered due to its slow
response to the increased pay-per-click payments to leading financial partner
sites. In addition, from the second half of FY9/14, the overseas businesses,
currently in the start-up phase, were added to the scope of consolidation,
which caused an operating loss of ¥40mn.○ Media Business In
the Media Business, sales decreased by 45.1% y-o-y to ¥375mn and operating loss
was ¥60mn (the previous year showed a ¥20mn operating profit). Looking at the
breakdown of sales, although media advertising income, focused on
“mamastadium”, was firm with increased users, in the social media apps business
a new social game introduced in December 2014 performed poorly and official
content for “au SmartPass” lowered, leading to a decline in income. In response to the earnings deterioration of the social media
apps business, the company announced in May rationalization measures in order
to improve profitability of this business. The company decided to move 30
people, about half of the staff, from its subsidiary more games to other
companies, and to basically withdraw from the development of social games.
Regarding the development of official content and native apps for communication
carriers, the company will continue since development costs are low. The effect
of reducing personnel is about ¥10mn per month.Financials continue in a healthy state (3) Financial standing and
management indicators Looking at the financial situation as of end of March 2015,
total assets were ¥5,763mn, an increase of ¥168mn versus the previous fiscal
year-end. The main factors were increases in trade receivables of ¥278mn and in
fixed assets of ¥212 mn and a decrease in cash and deposits of ¥327mn due to
payments such as taxes.On the other hand, liabilities
increased by ¥200mn to ¥2,960mn versus the end of the previous fiscal year.
Accounts payable -trade increased by ¥352mn and unpaid corporation tax fell by ¥123mn.
In addition, net assets fell by ¥29mn to ¥2,717mn versus the end of the
previous fiscal year. A decrease in retained earnings due to the payment of
dividends was the main cause. Looking at safety management indicators, as net assets decreased
slightly, the equity ratio reduced from 49.1% to 47.1%. Since cash and deposits
accounted for just under 40% of total assets at ¥2,143mn, and there is also
virtually no debt, the financial situation is deemed to have remained in a
healthy condition.◆Future Outlook Forecast to turn around results from Q2 (1) Company forecast for
FY9/15 At the same time as the earnings announcement for Q2 FY9/15
(January - March 2015), the company also modified the full-year earnings
outlook. The forecast was revised down from the initial plan to sales of
¥18,630mn, an 11.0% y-o-y increase, operating profit of ¥323mn, down 58.5%
y-o-y, recurring profit of ¥340mn, down 57.0% y-o-y and net profit of ¥69mn,
down 82.1%. However, the company forecast that the first half of this fiscal
year will be the bottom and there will be a recovery in the second half.(2) Forecast by business
segment ○ Internet Advertising (Affiliate) Business Internet
Advertising (Affiliate) Business sales are forecast to increase 15.7% y-o-y to
¥17,900mn and operating profit to fall 25.2% to ¥610mn. Within this, the
overseas business, on the assumption that the loss in the second half continues
at the same level as that in the first half, is forecast to show an operating
loss of ¥80mn for the full year. In the domestic business, alongside an
increase in sales, the operating profit margin is forecast to recover from the
2% range in the first half to the 4% range in the second half. Although
the average profit margin for the period ending March 2014 remained low at
5-6%, given that in the current fiscal year the company is actively engaged in
investment in human resources and that pay-per-click payments to partner sites
have increased, it can be said that this is a reasonable level. It should be
noted that the company added 22 new employees in April. In
order to achieve the full-year targets in addition to further strengthening
sales in the successful e-commerce and service industries for the company’s
flagship affiliate services, we forecast a recovery in revenue as a result of
further strengthening of cross-selling through the expansion of service sales.
Also, in order to raise capacity utilization in stores with respect to SFA, the
company will take steps to increase the unit price for adverts, strengthen
training systems, and continue to engage in channel development of new genres. In
addition, native advertising is one example of a new advertising service that
can expect future growth. This service will see expanding demand mainly from
media such as curation sites and social media, and because it can deliver
advertisements to a specific target it is attracting attention as a highly
cost-effective advertising service. The company has been working on native
advertising since the March 2014 period, and in FY9/15 sales have grown to
about ¥100mn on a quarterly basis. The number of customers has also increased,
focused on the ecommerce field. In
order to accelerate the growth of native advertising the company is developing
its own advertising media at the same time, and plans to release this within
FY9/15. Since the target is expected to be curation sites and photo-based sites,
the company can categorize users to some extent, and the media will be able to
create databases. In addition to increasing native advertising revenue by
expanding the number of UUs *1 while also
actively connecting with other companies’ sites, the company also plans to
strengthen sales of targeted advertising by combining with recommendation
engines *2. We forecast native advertising
revenue to rapidly expand in FY9/16 to more than double FY9/15 at over ¥800mn. ○
Media Business Media
Business sales are forecast to be ¥730mn, down y-o-y by 44.4%, operating loss
is forecast to be ¥180mn (in FY9/14 a loss of ¥34mn). As described above, this
will be due to reduction in social games and low sales of official content. For
the media advertising business, the monthly number of UUs at “mamastadium” for
April was 2.8 million, and continued to expand to 3 million in May, but the
growth rate is slowing. For this reason the company’ policy is to introduce
high-quality new content and events in order to expand the number of UUs. In
addition, the company has also embarked on the development of new media. As
described above, with respect to the game development business, the company is
reducing the business and personnel for social media apps, and from the second
half it will take steps to develop native apps and expand official content
sales to other major telecommunications carriers besides “au”. In the second
half the deficit is expected to remain, but we forecast that through these
measures the company will return to profitability in FY9/16. (3)
Overseas business The overseas business is still at the start-up stage for
affiliate services; the company is currently raising awareness among
advertisers and taking steps to develop partner sites.In Indonesia the company has a
business alliance with PT. Agranet Multicitra Siberkom, which operates the
leading local portal site "detik.com", and in addition to providing
the company's affiliate service, the company is providing affiliate advertising
on the price comparison site "StarPrice" operated by its subsidiary.
Currently, monthly sales have increased to just under ¥1mn, and if all goes
well we expect a monthly surplus within FY9/16. On the other hand, in Thailand
the company is still making efforts to raise awareness of affiliate services
for the future. Its local subsidiary operates a financial portal site
"Moneyhub" and is working to acquire affiliate customers. In addition, in April 2015 the company established a joint
venture with MWORK Corporation which provides one of the largest advertising
networks in Vietnam (Share 49%). MWORK offers the affiliate network
"mwork" for mobile use which is currently used by over 58,000 people.
Currently billing and settlement services for smartphone games are the main
source of income. In the joint venture, the company will provide its affiliate
system “ACCESSTRADE” to MWORK’s network. By fusing the company’s know-how in
advertising for a variety of industries and MWORK’s network, the company will
further expand the Vietnam affiliate advertising market, and aim to become the
largest affiliate service provider in the country.Achieve operating profit of ¥1.5bn in 3-4 years (4) Medium-term business plan The company’s medium-term business target is consolidated sales
of ¥25bn and operating profit of ¥1.5bn. We believe that if the company
continues its current growth it will achieve this in 3-4 years.The driving force of the
company’s revenue is the domestic Internet Advertising (Affiliate) Business,
and in addition to increasing its market share in affiliate services by
strengthening sales, the company will expand its business by strengthening new
services such as native advertising and video advertising. In addition, in the
Media Business, as well as "mamastadium", the company aims to
establish new media while building a stable earnings structure. For the overseas business, the company is aiming to establish a
No. 1 market share in affiliate services in each country, and the company has
the immediate goal of achieving a surplus within three years. In the medium to
long term we expect the businesses to become a driving force of the company's
revenue.◆Comparison with Industry
Peers and Policy of Returning Profits to Shareholders Human resources investment as a source of differentiation
(1) Comparison with industry
peers There
are four other major affiliate management companies besides Interspace: F@N
Communications, Inc. <2461>, Adways Inc. <2489>, ValueCommerce Co.,
Ltd. <2491>, and LinkShare Japan K.K. (unlisted), a subsidiary of Rakuten
<4755>. Their sales are around ¥10bn to ¥40bn. These five companies,
including Interspace, control nearly 60% of the industry market share. Looking
at the features of each company, F@N Communications is the largest industry
player with about 2 million affiliate sites. It has been engaged for many years
in the advertising business for SMEs and its dependence on e-commerce is
relatively high. Adways is about 50% dependent on the mobile Internet (compared
to domestic advertising sales) and is strong in games. Because of its heavy
dependence on the mobile Internet, its profit margin is relatively low.
ValueCommerce, a subsidiary of Yahoo! <4689>, makes an overwhelmingly
high percentage of its sales from the PC advertising business at around 70% (on
a project basis) and is strong in e-commerce. Alongside F@N Communications, it
remains highly profitable The
reason that Interspace has a lower profit margin than the above listed
companies is that, in addition to the low profitability of the Media Business,
the company has high staff levels for partner sites and advertiser development,
even in the Internet Advertising (Affiliate) Business, so personnel expenses as
a percentage of sales are relatively high. In order to maintain and improve sales expansion and quality of
service in FY9/15, the company actively engaged in human resources investment
and this has become a negative factor for profit; however, in the medium term
we believe that these human resource investments will become a plus for
earnings.Note measures directed at the First Section of the TSE (2) Policy of returning
profits to shareholders The company determines dividends by taking into account factors
such as earnings trends, financing needs and internal reserves for future
business development in a comprehensive manner. The dividend payout ratio has
been set as a guide at about 20%, and the dividend for FY9/15 is expected to be
¥8.00, on a par with FY9/14. 報告內容僅供參考，不得作為任何投資引用之唯一依據，且其投資風險及決定應由投資人自行判斷並自負損益。