Hottolink,Inc.(JP-3680)TSEMothersTargetingFasterGrowthintheSocialBigDataFieldFollowingAcquisitions(II)
  2015-03-04 提供機構：FISCO 作者：FISCO 點閱次數：5   

◆Financial status and risk factors, shareholder return policy Socialgist Acquisition Pushes Up Interest-bearing Debt,
But Management Indicators Remain Sound (1) Financial status The financial status of
Hottolink as of September 30, 2014 is shown in the table below. As of September
30, 2014, total assets were \2,128mn, up \660mn from December 31, 2013. The
main factor increasing total assets was an increase of \728mn in cash and
deposits due to the execution of short-term loans payable. The main factor
reducing total assets was amortization of goodwill of \43mn. Meanwhile, as of September 30,
2014, total liabilities were \810mn, an increase of \612mn from December 31,
2013. The main factor increasing total liabilities was the procurement of
short-term loans payable of \700mn to fund the Socialgist acquisition. Net
assets increased \48mn from December 31, 2013 to \1,317mn, mainly due to the
recording of net income of \40mn. Looking at the main management indicators, the current ratio was
223.7% and equity ratio was 61.9%, both of which are considered to be sound
levels. The Company’s financial position could
deteriorate temporarily following the increase in interest-bearing debt due to
the Socialgist acquisition. However, the financial position should improve as a
trend in step with earnings growth in FY12/15 and beyond.Attractive customer base, despite the risk of changes in
management policy by data purchasers (2) Risks In terms of business risks,
changes in management policy by companies that purchase social media data could
lead to a cancellation of current subscriptions, and this could have a negative
impact on financial results. That said, Hottolink already has approximately 500
corporate customers in Japan. Furthermore, the amount of data purchased is
expected to continue to increase mainly based on expansion in the data platform
business. Considering these factors, FISCO believes there is an extremely low
likelihood that operators would cancel their subscriptions. In addition, in the event of the Company being unable to secure
adequate human resources in the course of strengthening its capacity to develop
new services, the Company’s development capabilities
could be weakened. This could hinder earnings growth. Hottolink has hitherto
recruited outstanding talent primarily through mid-career recruitment. However,
Hottolink has improved its market recognition by going public, and is now
pushing ahead with many more joint research projects with universities. As a
result, we believe that conditions are now favorable for the Company to recruit
outstanding talent.Maintain no dividend policy for the near term, allocate
funds to investment and human resources (3) Shareholder return policy Regarding the return of profits to shareholders, Hottolink plans
to pay out dividends to shareholders in the future. However, Hottolink believes
that it is currently in an upfront investment phase where it should actively
allocate funds primarily to capital investment and the recruitment and training
of talent. Accordingly, Hottolink plans to maintain its no dividend policy in
FY12/14.◆Growth strategy Targeting Net Sales of \2,418mn and Operating Income of
\544mn in FY12/15 or FY12/16 As its near-term management
targets, Hottolink is targeting net sales of \2,418mn and operating income of
\544mn for FY12/15 or FY12/16. The exercise of the stock options with charge,
which will be issued in February 2015, will be conditional upon the achievement
of these targets. As stated earlier, the
financial results of Socialgist will be added to those of Hottolink in FY12/15
without any offsets, and amortization of goodwill will no longer be recorded.
Therefore, even if existing businesses were to record flat growth, net sales
and operating income are both projected to double in FY12/15, with net sales
and operating income forecast to increase to around \2,100mn and \300mn,
respectively. In practice, Hottolink and Socialgist could both achieve
double-digit annual growth. Accordingly, Hottolink is well on track to
achieving its management targets by FY12/16. The composition of
consolidated net sales will change dramatically as a result of the Socialgist
acquisition. In FY12/14, the SaaS Business accounted for 75% of net sales,
while the Solution Business accounted for 24%. In FY12/15, the Solution
Business is projected to expand to nearly 70% of net sales, becoming Hottolink’s core business. This change is in line with the Company’s medium-term management strategy, specifically its strategy for
evolving from a cloud “tool” vendor to a cloud “platform” vendor. Major changes are reshaping the market environment that
surrounds Hottolink. This upheaval is one factor behind the Company’s drive to become a cloud “platform” vendor. For example, social
big data is now being used in many different sectors, such as finance,
politics, news media and government, in addition to traditional marketing
fields. Meanwhile, enterprise software vendors are moving to incorporate social
big data into their proprietary services in an effort to deliver high
value-added services. To convert these changes in the market landscape into
business opportunities, Hottolink is seeking to maximize growth opportunities
by optimizing and effectively allocating human resources. In fact, Hottolink is
making steady progress on collaborative initiatives via business alliances with
enterprise software vendors and various media companies.Hottolink also intends to vigorously push ahead with an M&A
strategy as part of its medium-term growth strategy.As the Socialgist acquisition
drives immediate expansion in the Company’s global network, Hottolink will take full advantage of its
strengths in the course of establishing a dominant position as a social media
data distribution company. Possible M&A targets could include companies
that provide social media data analysis services in the Southeast Asian market.
This is because the Southeast Asian market offers strong economic growth
potential, and will be watched closely as a market where marketing analysis
needs will increase among global companies. By acquiring a social media data
analysis service company in the Southeast Asian market, Hottolink intends to
cement a solid position as a cloud “platform” vendor in the Southeast Asian market and thereby accelerate
growth. Hottolink is set to expand
services by offering an overseas version of kuchikomi@kakaricho, including
China data, as a result of converting Socialgist into a subsidiary. This offers
strong prospects as it will enable Hottolink to support the business activities
of Japanese companies abroad. Similarly, there are high hopes for an overseas version
of e-mining, as it will help Japanese companies implement risk management
measures in response to unforeseeable events such as strikes at overseas plants
and an escalation of anti-Japan sentiment. Over the medium and long term, Hottolink aims to achieve net
sales of \10,000mn as early as possible. This will be done by executing three
growth strategies: (1) refine services in the social big data marketing field,
(2) expand the data platform business in a wide range of sectors in Japan and
(3) expand business overseas through M&As. Hottolink will be able to ensure
steady profitability because its core operation is the cloud service business.
In addition, the Company’s only main variable expense
is data purchasing costs, which represent a small percentage of net sales, at
around 10%. The largest component of fixed expenses is personnel costs, which
account for 30-35% of net sales. With the workforce in Japan expected to
increase by around 10 employees a year going forward, personnel costs are now
expected to increase at a more moderate pace. For these reasons, profitability
is expected to improve in step with sales growth. 報告內容僅供參考，不得作為任何投資引用之唯一依據，且其投資風險及決定應由投資人自行判斷並自負損益。