SUN-WATECHNOSCORPORATION(JP-8137)TokyoStockExchangeFirstSectionFY3/15SeesSecondConsecutiveYearofRecordProfits,FY3/16ImportantYearforNextMedium-termManagementPlan(II)
  2015-07-08 提供機構：FISCO 作者：FISCO 點閱次數：12   

◆Our Thoughts on a New Medium-term Management Plan Company forecast of FY3/16 ordinary income falls far
short of target in the current medium-term management plan Although sales and profits
have been growing briskly, we are not satisfied. As detailed later, the company
forecasts an FY3/16 ordinary income of \3.8bn, which is much less than the
\4.7bn targeted in the current medium-term management plan. We believe that
this gap stems from the fact that the company plans to invest and spend more in
FY3/16, while the operating environment is favorable, than it had originally
planned to, thereby setting a strong base for growth over the three-year period
of the next medium-term management plan. Of course, the company has not
divulged the content of its next medium-term plan, but we think that the plan
should strive to accomplish the following four objectives: 1. Strengthen the business
base by increasing transactions with non-Japanese companies 2. Build the engineering
business to a significant scale 3. Establish new businesses in
growth areas 4. Improve cost control The second and third of these
goals are being pursued in the current medium-term plan, and they should be
retained in the new plan. Elements of the first and fourth goals are also
present in the current plan, but they are not prominent. We believe that the
new management plan should clearly focus on the first and fourth objectives. Increasing transactions with non-Japanese companies would
probably allow the company to obtain highly profitable projects (1) Increase business with
non-Japanese companies As mentioned before, most of
Sun-Wa Technos’s overseas business is conducted with
subsidiaries and affiliates of Japanese companies. The company could probably
expand its overseas business working just for such subsidiaries and affiliates.
However, we believe that it should increase its overseas business with
non-Japanese companies to build the business to another scale. By doing so, it
would lift sales and increase the likelihood of winning highly profitable work.However, we believe that the
company’s two-way trade model, which supports
business growth in Japan, may be an impediment to selling to non-Japanese
companies. Our reasoning is as follows. The electronics business, which
provides more than 70% of the company’s
total sales, procures all its products from Japanese companies. These products
are probably too advanced, too costly and too high in quality for many
non-Japanese companies, especially those in Asian countries other than Japan.
If the company were to trade in goods made by Japanese companies with the
functions and prices suitable to these non-Japanese customers, it would simply
be copying its inferior competitors, and it may erode the company’s profitability. We think that for Sun-Wa
Technos to increase its business with non-Japanese companies, it should
establish two-way trade among non-Japanese companies, just as it has among
Japanese companies. In other words, it would supply general machinery and
electrical machinery components made by non-Japanese companies to other
non-Japanese manufacturers, then sell the electronic products of these
customers to non-Japanese companies. By supplying parts of production equipment
to non-Japanese companies, Su-Wa Technos could also increase its engineering
business. Japanese companies tend to focus on cutting-edge production
equipment, and supplying such equipment does not always support profit growth
for Sun-Wa Technos. For many non-Japanese companies, Sun-Wa Technos could
supply products and technologies made in Japan that are considered outdated in
Japan, products for which the company has substantial experience and knowhow.
This might also enhance the company’s
reputation as a trader of technology products. Time will probably be required
to establish a two-way trade model for non-Japanese companies. However, we
believe that this time would be shortened significantly if the company applied
its experience in Japan. If the company chooses non-Japanese partners wisely,
it could greatly expedite the establishment of a two-way trade model, in our
opinion.The company has been limiting its costs, but there is
room for improvement (2) Improve cost control As a trading company, Sun-Wa
Technos maintains stable, low profit margins, regardless of its efforts. It
implements different policies to raise sales, but even if sales grow, making a
profit is another issue. The company’s
sales personnel probably consider profitability when negotiating a sale, but
profit conscious is essential as the company’s operating income margin remains fairly constant, at about 3%. The reason that we advocate
greater cost control is that we foresee a greater-than-usual increase in
personnel costs and investment in developing overseas business in FY3/16. Of
course, upfront investment for future growth is necessary, but it must be
normalized, either by eliminating previous increases or by matching it to the
sales increases resulting from previous spending. Sun-Wa Technos has generally
kept its ratio of SG&A expenses to sales below 10% per year, which has been
an appropriate level. In FY3/16, however, it appears that SG&A expenses
will increase more than projected in the current medium-term plan, causing
profit to fall short of the target. If this is a one-time increase, there may
be no need for concern. The company has controlled costs well in the past, so
it may continue to do so, but we would like to see the company control costs
more in its next medium-term management plan.◆Business Trends and Financial Analysis Record-high profits for the second year in a row (1) FY3/15 Consolidated
Results In FY3/15, consolidated net
sales grew 9.8% yoy to \111,276mn, operating income rose 8.1% to \3,471mn,
ordinary income climbed 9.4% to \3,761mn, and net income advanced 13.8% to
\2,466mn. Profits reached all-time highs for the second consecutive year. In the electrical machinery
business, sales declined 8.5% yoy because of a drop in domestic sales of
control equipment for solar power systems. In the electronics business, sales
rose 15.6% yoy, reflecting increases in sales of electronic parts for factory
automation equipment, automotive equipment, and amusement equipment. In the
general machinery business, sales advanced 16.7% yoy, led by upturns in sales
of equipment for LCD production lines and industrial robots for other kinds of
production lines.Conservative forecasts could be surpassed (2) Company forecasts for
FY3/16 For FY3/16, the company
projects a 6.9% y-o-y rise in consolidated net sales to \119.0bn, a 0.8% upturn
in operating income to \3.5bn, a 1.0% increase in ordinary income to \3.8bn,
and a 1.3% advance in net income to \2.5bn. These projected increases are
modest, and the sales forecast is \1.0bn lower than the sales targeted in the
current medium-term management plan, while the operating and ordinary income
forecasts are each \900mn lower. The company foresees increased
sales to the factory automation, other industrial machinery, and automotive
industries in FY3/16, but it forecasts declines in sales to the semiconductor,
LCD and amusement industries. Because of increased hiring and an aggressive
expansion of its overseas business, the company projects a rise in SG&A
expenses that curtails profit growth.We find the company’s FY3/16 forecasts conservative and see room for higher sales
and profits than forecast, high enough to absorb increased expenses. The three
main suppliers to Sun-Wa Technos are Yaskawa Electric (6506), Omron (6645) and
Minebea (6479). For FY3/16, Omron projects a y-o-y sales increase of 6.2%,
Yaskawa Electric forecasts an 8.7% y-o-y sales rise, and Minebea anticipates
sales growth of 29.8%. Sun-Wa Technos has about 1,700 suppliers, but we
estimate that these three companies supply about 20% of the total products
purchased by Sun-Wa Technos. The sales growth forecast by Yaskawa Electric and
Omron reflects the strong trend in manufacturing production equipment and other
kinds of equipment industries, while the growth foreseen by Minebea shows its
strong tendency toward manufacturing products for machinery industry,
particularly automobiles, and for the smartphone and other electronic goods
industry. The business of these three main suppliers should affect the business
of Sun-Wa Technos directly and indirectly, which is the main reason we believe
that Sun-Wa Technos’s forecasts are conservative. The company’s FY3/16 forecasts assume an increase in the ratio of SG&A
expenses to sales, but if the company generates more sales than it forecasts,
its ratio of SG&A expenses to sales may not rise as much as it assumes.
More important is whether the rise in the ratio of SG&A expenses to sales
will be limited to FY3/16. In this sense, prospects for FY3/17 are more
important than those for FY3/16.Aiming to improve financial measures over the medium- to
long-term (3) Financial analysis In FY3/15, the company’s ROE fell 1ppt yoy to 12.2%. This is higher than the average
ROE for listed Japanese companies of 8–9%,
but the ROE has been trending lower. Therefore, we look for improvement in this
measure of return to equity investors. Based on the company’s FY3/16 forecasts and several assumptions, we have estimated
the balance sheet figures for FY3/16 shown in the table below. We estimate that
the company’s ROE is likely to fall to 11.1% in
FY3/16 because, even though the company plans to increase its dividend, we see
equity growing at more than twice the rate of net income growth. It’s not practical to raise ROE only by increasing the dividend. It
would probably be more effective to limit the growth of total assets and use
some cash to buy back the company’s outstanding shares. However, in our opinion, the
ideal situation would be for the company to raise its ROE by continuing to
increase its net income while moderating the growth of equity. The company
still has great potential to increase its sales and profits, but its dividend
payout ratio, at 15%, is lower than the corresponding ratios for most Japanese
companies and here may be one aspect the company should consider improving. The
company has many options by which to improve its financial ratios, and we
expect this improvement to be a theme for the company over the medium- to
long-term.◆Shareholder Return Policy Company aims for stable, continuous returns of profit to
shareholders. Expect the company to continue to raise its dividend The company’s basic policy is to make stable, continuous returns to
shareholders in the form of dividends. It has done so in the past, despite
fluctuations in earnings. Even in FY3/09– FY3/10, when the company suffered net losses following the
global financial crisis triggered by the collapse of Lehman Brothers, it paid a
dividend equal to its FY3/08 dividend. In FY3/14– FY3/15, the company raised its dividend accompanying its profit
increases. For FY3/15, it lifted its
dividend by \4 to \26 per share, for a dividend payout ratio of 15.1%. For
FY3/16, it plans to increase its dividend by \2 to \28 per share, for a
dividend payout ratio of 16.1%. The company’s results may not be spectacular, but they are steadily
increasing, so the company is likely to continue to raise its dividend. 報告內容僅供參考，不得作為任何投資引用之唯一依據，且其投資風險及決定應由投資人自行判斷並自負損益。