Heliostechnoholding(JP-6927)TokyoStockExchangeFirstSectionSteadyrecoveryinbusinessresults,withfourbusinessesstartingtocometothefore(I)
  2015-02-09 提供機構：FISCO 作者：FISCO 點閱次數：17   

Helios Techno Holding
<6927> is a holding company formed in 2009 as a result of business
integration and a business acquisition undertaken by the former PHOENIX
Electric Co., Ltd. During the years of PHOENIX Electric, the company had only
one business, namely the lamp business. The company has now brought in the
manufacturing equipment business, the inspection equipment business and the
human resource service business, and currently has four businesses. Although
the lamp business and the manufacturing equipment business currently make up
the bulk of earnings, future growth is likely to be supported by the high
growth potential of the manufacturing equipment, inspection equipment and human
resource service businesses. The lamp business also offers strong growth
prospects given the opportunities to pursue synergies between the lamp business
and manufacturing and inspection equipment. The manufacturing equipment business has a large share of the
market for alignment layer printing equipment, which has seen buoyant demand
from makers of LCD displays used in TVs and smartphones. Furthermore,
touch-screen panel manufacturing equipment has also been a strong performer. In
addition to these, the company is also involved in a relocation business for
used manufacturing equipment. This business resells discarded equipment from
Japan and Taiwan to customers in China. Many companies shy away from dealing
with China. The company has human resources who have strengths in dealing with
China and it is aggressively developing its business in this area.The company’s business results have
continued to recover steadily. It may take some time to return to the previous
level the time of the projector boom, but all four businesses are gradually
beginning to make progress, side-by-side. The volume of orders on October 31,
2015 is at a high level of \18,322mn, and there is a possibility that
performance may improve sharply in FY3/16. However, this is only a temporary
effect, and caution is required over the various risks involved in the company’s businesses. Nevertheless, as the market for equipment
continues to shrink in Japan and Taiwan, in China active capital expenditure is
continuing, and we believe that if the company is able to use large projects
like these to accumulate experience and increase the stability of the used
machinery business, it could become a growth engine over the medium and long
terms.◆Corporate Overview After Reorganization, Super High Voltage Mercury Lamps
for Projectors Light the Way Forward (1) History Helios Techno’s history began with the establishment of the former PHOENIX
Electric Co., Ltd. PHOENIX Electric was established by engineers spun-out from
USHIO INC. <6925> as a company focused on the manufacture and sale of
halogen lamps for general lighting and automobiles. As the mainstream
illumination at the time was incandescent lamps, few companies possessed
manufacturing technology for halogen lamps, and the company steadily expanded
its business scope. However, from the late 1980s
through to the mid-1990s, the appreciation of the yen in the wake of the Plaza
Accord, market entry of cheap Chinese products and the anti-dumping tariffs
imposed by European markets (subsequently avoided by shifting production to
local sites), and other factors combined to bring about a sharp decline in
business conditions. In 1995, the company was forced to file for reorganization
under the Corporate Reorganization Act. Subsequently, Masaya Nakamura, founder
of Namco Limited (currently BANDAI NAMCO Holdings, Inc. <7832>) became
the turnaround supporter and Sadaichi Saitou was assigned from Namco to serve
as the company’s representative director and president
(current) and start the rehabilitation. Thereafter, the company found
its way forward in the niche market of super-high-voltage mercury lamps for
projectors and steadily progressed toward rehabilitation. During that time, the
lamp product lineup expanded to include lamps for illumination, projectors,
lithography light sources, and LED lamps. In 2009, the company merged its management with Nippon Gijutsu
Center Co., Ltd. and adopted its current name. The company itself is a pure
holding company, and a new PHOENIX Electric Co., Ltd. was established. Upon
this management integration, enabled by an introduction from Mr. Nakamura, the
subsidiary Nakan Techno Co., Ltd. was established and received transfer of the
manufacturing equipment business. These events have brought the company to its
current state.In the securities markets, the company’s shares were first registered for OTC trading in 1989. The
registration was removed in 1996 with the start of the reorganization
proceedings, but in December 2002 it relisted on the JASDAQ market (currently
the TSE JASDAQ market). In April 2005, the company was listed on the Second
Section of the Tokyo Stock Exchange, and in May 2006 it was re-designated for
the First Section of the Tokyo Stock Exchange, its current position.Operations in the Lamp Business, Manufacturing Equipment
Business, Inspection Equipment Business, and Human Resource Service Business (2) Operational overview The company itself is a pure holding company, under which it has
five consolidated subsidiaries. These include the following three main
companies: PHOENIX Electric, which operates the lamp business, Nippon Gijutsu
Center, which operates the human resource service business, and Nakan Techno,
which is involved in the manufacturing equipment business. The companies
businesses comprise four business segments: the lamp business, the
manufacturing equipment business, the inspection equipment business, and the
human resource service business. The relationships between each consolidated
subsidiary and each business segment are shown below.After the completion of
corporate rehabilitation, the company experienced some extremely dynamic
business environment changes before arriving at the current business structure.
During the days of the former PHOENIX Electric, the company basically operated
just the lamp business. The main focus was on lamps for projectors, with other
applications including halogen lamps for general illumination, halogen lamps
for automobiles, and metal halide lamps for general illumination. From around 2004, the
projector lamp business grew rapidly as compact, cheap, high resolution, high
brightness projectors became a hit product, especially in North America. In
FY3/05, sales of projector lamps increased 1.7 times from the previous fiscal
year, and operating income shot up 2.4 times. However, the expansion of the
projector market set off a sharp decline in prices, and the yen’s appreciation caused the company to lose market share. From a
peak in FY3/06, both sales and profits of the company fell sharply. As noted above, in 2009, the company has had its current four
business fields since FY3/10 as a result of its management integration with
Nippon Gijutsu Center and Nakan Techno in 2009. Although net sales have now
surpassed their past peak, profits are still substantially lower than their
past peak, and currently on the way to recovering. This is due to the effect of
a decline in projector lamp prices to around one tenth of their peak price. The
recent depreciation of the yen is supporting a gradual recovery in sales and
profits, although it will not be possible to regain past earnings levels. We
believe that each of the business segments has the potential to achieve an
operating income margin of around 10%, and the company itself is currently
working to improve its overall margin.Looking at the actual results for FY3/14 with net sales and
operating income broken down by business segment, the lamp business operated by
PHOENIX Electric and the manufacturing equipment business operated by Nakan
Techno comprise the major part, while the human resource service business is
driving earnings expansion. Moreover, the manufacturing equipment business is
also beginning to play the central role in the company’s earnings, and holds the greatest potential for the future.◆Details of Business Segments Lamp Business Looks to Light Source Units for
Photolithography Equipment (1) Lamp business A breakdown of the lamp business by type is presented in the
graph below. The company manufactures four types of product in-house, as well
as selling products procured from other companies. Projector lamps have
declined dramatically from their past heights, and it is clear that units for
photolithography equipment and LED lamps have been growing to fill the gap.In the lamp business, the company is looking to light source
units for photolithography equipment to drive future growth. These are used in
photolithography equipment for manufacturing the color filters that are a key
component of LCD panels. The company not only sells lamps to serve as light
sources, but also assembles light source units incorporating multiple lamps for
supply to photolithography equipment manufacturers. The company mainly supplies
major companies in this field, but is also progressing on business talks regarding
supplying photolithography light source units to other manufacturers. Moreover,
since the lamps have a limited service life, as the number of installed
photolithography units builds up, sales of lamps for maintenance and repair are
also growing steadily. Currently, total shipments of lamp units appear to be
divided approximately in halves between units for the manufacture of new
equipment and units for maintenance and repair of existing equipment.The LED lamp business is also
expected to grow going forward. There is an ongoing move to replace
conventional lamps with LEDs in the field of illumination in general, including
incandescent, fluorescent, and mercury lamps. The company has been working on
product development in line with this trend. The company focuses on niche
markets where there is little competition. Specific fields include illumination
for high ceilings and signboards. The company also appears to be achieving
strong sales with products that replace 1,000 W class mercury lamps used in golf
driving ranges and compact fluorescent lamps used for general illumination. The
company sources LED chips externally, and it will therefore be difficult for it
to increase profitability compared with the days when its main products were
halogen lamps and metal halide lamps. A key point to watch is whether the
company will be able to increase its profit margin through measures such as
utilizing its expertise as a dedicated lamp manufacturer to specialize in
product types for markets that have few competitors and allow advantageous
price setting. With projector lamp prices
falling to less than one tenth of their former level and demand for new
projectors having apparently run its course, it is difficult to see significant
growth in this sector. On the other hand, however, there is also little
possibility of demand falling in the future either. This is because
projection-type projectors are widely used in business and other settings.
Moreover, companies dealing in projector lamps other than Helios Techno Holding
are few, such as Koninklijke Philips N.V. of the Netherlands, ORSAM GmbH of
Germany, and USHIO. The market itself is by no means large, but we see the lamp
business continuing to be an important support for the company’s earnings base going forward, especially with the effect of the
yen’s depreciation. There is one element in the future outlook that offers potential
for a positive outcome. Up until now, the company has manufactured projector
lamps for DC-type projectors to avoid infringing on Philips’s patents. However, these patents are about to expire, and the
company plans to begin manufacturing products for AC-type projectors also. This
will lead to a genuine expansion in business opportunities for the company, and
is therefore a positive factor.Manufacturing Printing Equipment for LCD and Touch-Screen
Panels, and Starting the Used Equipment Business (2) Manufacturing Equipment
Business The manufacturing equipment business is handled by Nakan Techno.
This company deals specifically with printing equipment products; however, they
are specialized in that they are made not for the printing industry per se, but
for LCD and touch-screen panel manufacturers.Equipment for LCD panels is specifically alignment layer
printing equipment. Nakan Techno supplies manufacturing equipment that uses
flexo printing technology. It has virtually a 100% market share in flexo
printing-type equipment. There are also ink-jet printing alignment layer
printing units in this field, but with their respective advantages and disadvantages,
flexo printing appears to have advantages for LCDs up to glass sizes of around
generation 8.5.For touch-screen panels, the company has mobilized its entire
arsenal of ink jet, gravure offset, and flexo printing technologies to provide
equipment for the various processes of touch-screen panel manufacturing. The
main advantages of the company’s equipment is that it reduces
the number of processes, reduces material usage (ink), alleviates environmental
impact (reduces chemical disposal processing costs), and so forth. The company
has used these advantages as entry points for expanding sales.Another activity in the
manufacturing equipment business is relocation of used manufacturing equipment.
Specifically, the company purchases used equipment from Japan and Taiwan,
including LCD manufacturing lines and equipment for manufacturing LCDs and
touch-screen panels for smartphones, and sells it, mainly to Chinese
manufacturers. The company undertakes not only sales of equipment, but also
relocation, so this business carries a fair amount of risk. Moreover, when
dealing with Chinese operators, problems often arise in collecting payment.
Given this situation, while it is recognized that sales of used equipment to
China present many business opportunities, there are very few operators that
are actually conducting this business. The company has been carrying out the used equipment relocation
business since the launch of Nakan Techno in 2009. The reason the company
started this business was because Nakan Techno representative director and
president Yoshihisa Sato has a strong personal network in China. Currently, the
company has many trading partners within China, and has captured large orders.In the manufacturing equipment
business, it is important to note there are significant annual revenue
fluctuations influenced by customers’
capital expenditure cycles, and that there is a risk of delay in the timing for
acceptance inspections in the used equipment relocation business. Furthermore,
it is worth noting although payment collection risk is relatively high in this
business, there have been no recovery failures to date. Moreover, in the medium
to long term, it is possible that the company will require large R&D
investments to keep up with the progress in technology. The company’s basic strategy is not to target the most advanced fields, but
to compete in niche markets using its existing technologies. However, it is
also eyeing strategic alliances with other companies, including capital
alliances. It is also important to note that if the company’s technological advancement were to stall, there is a
possibility that it could lose its market overnight. Inspection Equipment to Pursue Synergies with
Manufacturing Equipment (3) Inspection Equipment
Business The inspection equipment
business is operated by Nippon Gijutsu Center. This company conducts technician
dispatch operations and develops, manufactures, and sells inspection and
measuring equipment in response to orders from customers. Recently in the inspection
equipment business the company is pursuing synergies with the manufacturing
equipment business. That is to say, the manufacturing equipment business is
gradually shifting its focus from equipment for LCDs to equipment for touch
screen panels. The company is responding to this call by strengthening its
external appearance inspection equipment for touch screen panels. Several
inspection operations are involved in the touch screen panel manufacturing
process, and the company has already developed and supplied an automatic
external appearance inspection unit for checking wiring. In addition, the
company is currently developing a final process external appearance inspection
unit for large sheets. The inspection equipment business needs to address low profitability.
In FY3/13 and FY3/14, the company achieved an operating profit; however, the
level is still low. Moreover, the business also incurs development expenses and
so forth. It is important to monitor this business closely to see whether it
can secure stable profits.Personnel Dispatch Business Has Low Yet
Steady Profitability (4) Human Resource Service Business The human resource service business is operated by Nippon
Gijutsu Center and Techno Provider. The business basically involves design
subcontracting, dispatch of equipment manufacturing engineers and dispatch of
temporary staff. Techno Provider also conducts some nursing care services. Nippon Gijutsu Center made Kansai Giken a subsidiary in May
2013, and absorbed it by merger in October of the same year. Kansai Giken was
also mainly involved in engineer dispatch and machinery design operations. Both
companies had a strong affinity, and it was judged that synergies would be
easily achieved. Techno Provider became a wholly owned subsidiary of Helios
Techno in October 2013. Techno Provider is based in the Kansai region and
conducts temporary staff dispatch operations as well as at-home nursing care
services. The human resource service business is by no means a highly
profitable one; however, it produces steady profits. For the time being, the
company is focusing on enhancing the business management framework and other
internal improvements. However, once these are complete it intends to expand
its business scope through M&As and aggressively secure dispatch workers. 報告內容僅供參考，不得作為任何投資引用之唯一依據，且其投資風險及決定應由投資人自行判斷並自負損益。