KENKOMayonnaiseCo.,Ltd.(JP-2915)TokyoStockExchangeFirstSectionMaintainingSales&EarningsGrowththroughSaladsandDelicatessenProductsthatMeetLifestyleChanges(II)
  2015-02-24 提供機構：FISCO 作者：FISCO 點閱次數：5   

◆Performance Trends Deterioration in the market environment due to unseasonable
summer weather & ingredient cost rises (1) Market Environment Monthly sales trends in the
Company’s mainstay customer markets of
restaurants industries, supermarkets (delicatessen) and CVS (chilled groceries)
are displayed in the graph below. Although delicatessen product sales to
supermarkets continue to grow steadily at around 5% y-o-y, apart from June
sales to the restaurant industry shifting to a y-o-y decline, with, amongst
other things, CVS (chilled groceries) sales also slowing down from July, the
Company is arguably in the position of having lost a little momentum. We feel
that this is due to the impact of unseasonable weather, including the typhoon
and prolonged rain over summer, and also due to price rises in certain areas as
a result of increases in ingredient costs. Going forward also, as a result of
ingredient cost rises due to factors such as yen depreciation, trends including
price hikes in the restaurant sector will proceed, and thus arguably the market
environment is in a position that cannot be viewed optimistically.H1 sees higher sales as a result of increased product
take-up at CVS, but lower profit due to rises in raw material prices (2) Consolidated H1 FY3/15
Financial Highlights The consolidated H1 FY3/15
results (Apr-Sep 2014), which were announced on November 7, showed increased
revenues but decreased profits, with sales of \30,091 million, up 3.9% y-o-y,
operating profit of \1,394 million, down 15.8% y-o-y, recurring profit of
\1,270 million, down 18.7% y-o-y, and net profit of \736 million, down 19.1%
y-o-y. Compared with the Company’s initial plan, apart from
sales of sauces to the fast food industry being sluggish, and excluding the
fact that the market price for eggs rose more than expected, progress was
largely in line with the plan.Within sales, despite sales to
the fast food industry being lackluster, apart from sales of egg products,
centered on CVS, performing well, as a result of promoting meticulous menu
development by segment and business type, as well as its sales response,
amongst other things in each market there was progress in the take-up of not
only existing products but new products, which also contributed to revenue
growth. Looking at growth rates by industry, aside from sales to CVS rising by
approximately 10% y-o-y, food dispensing rose by approximately 8%, with
restaurants, retail outlets and bakeries each rising by 1-2%. In particular, in
respect of CVS, in addition to the number of stores growing, proactive product
menu proposal activities led to growth in sales. In the CVS industry, the
product turnover period is short in comparison to other industries, and there
are numerous opportunities to participate in competitions with other companies.
In this sort of environment, the fact that sales have been expanded is arguably
proof that the Company’s product appeal as well as
its quality and technical capabilities are regarded highly. Examining the reasons for the
changes in recurring profit, while the impact of increased revenues (\45
million) and the impact of mayonnaise and processed egg product price revisions
(\325 million) were factors tending to boost profit, on the other hand,
increases in raw material prices, including surges in the market price for eggs
and vegetables prices (\270 million), cost increases including one-off expenses
(\289 million) associated with the consolidation of processed egg product
production facilities (KANTOH DIET EGG Co., Ltd.’s Niiza Factory was consolidated into the Shizuoka Fujisan
Factory), and rise in fixed costs (\102 million) were factors tending to reduce
profits.Egg products & delicatessen-related products
performed well in H1 (3) Trends by business segment
○Seasoning/Processed
Food Business Sales in the mainstay
seasoning and processed food business rose 3.2% y-o-y to \24,985 million, while
segment profit declined 8.5% y-o-y to \1,244 million. As noted above, the
reasons for the decline in profits were rises in ingredient costs and one-off
expenses due to the consolidation of production facilities. Examining sales trends by
product line, salads and delicatessen products performed solidly rising 3.7%
y-o-y to \8,317 million (with volumes sold up 2.3% y-o-y). Apart from new
take-up of the flagship potato salad product, mainly for the restaurant sector,
pumpkin salad for bread making increased. Also, the “Salad Made by a Salad Pro” range of salads for which sales were newly commenced from
September 2013 for commercial use, performed well, being adopted not only under
the Company’s brand but as a private brand product
for CVS. Mayonnaise and dressings
declined 4.5% y-o-y to \8,354 million (with volumes sold down 7.4% y-o-y),
which was the only decline by product category. Aside from progress in the new
take-up of mayonnaise for baked bread and dressings for restaurants, as a
result of factors such as the expansion of the number of products in the World
Sauce range, from 14 in the same period last year to 18 items, sales grew
steadily. However, the impact of sluggish conditions in the fast food industry
was apparent. Moreover, given that from H2 FY3/14 the Company has undertaken a
phased price revision of mayonnaise, the sales price has risen in the order of
3% by unit weight. Egg products performed well
rising 12.0% y-o-y to \7,787 million (with volumes sold up 10.6%). A variety of
processed products, including egg salad for sandwiches and baked bread,
Atsuyaki- Tamago (Japanese style rolled omelet) and boiled eggs for lunch boxes
and other products grew mainly focused on CVS and bread makers.Further, given that the
Shizuoka Fujisan Factory that commenced operations from April has built a
production line from egg-breaking process, quality and taste have improved from
even that previously, and new customer acquisition also appears to be
proceeding steadily. In the initial plan it was scheduled that the
consolidation and transfer of operations of the KANTOH DIET EGG Co., Ltd.’s subsidiary Niiza Factory would be completed by Q1, however,
the fact that completion of the transfer will take until the end of September,
due to the impact of factors such as the minor fire in June, is a cause for
cost rises.○Side-Dish-Related
Business Sales from side-dish-related
business rose 9.3% y-o-y to \4,540 million, while segment profit declined 54.9%
y-o-y to \149 million, forming a gain in revenue but decline in earnings. Apart
from sales of cut vegetables which were started in December 2013 and are
limited to the Hokkaido region performing steadily, sales of existing products
such as pasta salads for mass retailers rose. In the supermarket industry,
given the fact that the growth rate of delicatessen products is in the order of
6%, we may say that the Company’s growth exceeded the industry
average. On the other hand, from a profit perspective, rises in egg and
vegetable prices were a reason for the decline in profits.○Other Business Sales in the other business
segment, in addition to revenue from the specialty salad shops developed as
Salad Cafe Co., Ltd., include in profits income (or losses) in equity method
affiliates from overseas operations. H1 sales declined 3.9% y-o-y to \564
million, with a segment loss of \134 million (compared with loss of \117
million in the same period a year ago). Within this, looking at segment profit
and excluding overseas operations, there was a decline from \7 million in the
same period a year ago to \3 million. During this H1, among the 16 specialty
salad shops, a refurbishment of the shop in Takashimaya Kyoto store was carried
out. On the other hand, despite a
reduction in investment losses in overseas business within its Chinese business
from \125 million to \95 million, due to a \43 million loss from Indonesian
business, where the factory has been fully operational from autumn last year,
total losses in net equity of affiliates expanded from \124 million to \138
million.Full-year outlook for revenue & earnings growth
remains unchanged from the initial plan (4) Outlook for FY3/15 The FY3/15 consolidated
results outlook remains unchanged from the initial plan, with sales up 4.7%
y-o-y to \60,000 million, operating profit up 19.0% y-o-y to \2,890 million,
recurring profit up 19.5% y-o-y to \2,700 million, and net profit up 25.6%
y-o-y to \1,590 million. In sales by business,
excluding a 2.8% y-o-y decline in mayonnaise and dressings, all businesses are
expected to show an increase in sales. In particular, double-digit growth of
12.0% y-o-y is expected in respect of egg products. Benefits from increased
capacity, expansion in sales channels and new product rollout from the Shizuoka
Fujisan Factory becoming operational will contribute to this result. From
mid-October all nine lines at the Shizuoka Fujisan Factory will commence
operations, with the utilization rate thus also being on an upward trend.
Initially the Company aimed for it to be running at full capacity three years
after becoming operational, however, given that customer appraisal has been
increasing, it is expected that it will be able to achieve full capacity a year
earlier. Because the demand for egg products is robust, the Company is
promoting increases in capacity at its KANTOH DIET EGG’s Aizu Wakamatsu Factory also, and, in the event that even with
this production capacity is deemed to be insufficient, it will promote
additional expansion at the Shizuoka Fujisan Factory.In respect of salads and
delicatessen products, apart from further strengthening a sales and development
strategy segmentized by business, and strengthening commercial sales promotions
for mainstay FDF® (Fashion Delica Foods ®), the Company is promoting the expansion of sales channels for
its commercial usage “Salad Made by a Salad Pro” range of salads. In respect of
side-dish-related business also, apart from promoting sales expansion of fresh
delicatessen and other products focusing on mass retailers, it is striving to
strengthen its cut vegetables business in Hokkaido. Other than that, in December
the Company opened its Salad Cafe The Diamond Yokohama shop. As a result of
increased health consciousness and demand for HMR due to changes in lifestyles,
requests for new store openings of Salad Cafes has been rising. While
emphasizing profitability, the Company also has plans to expand store numbers
at a pace of several stores per annum in convenient locations such as shopping
precincts at train stations and within commercial buildings over train stations.
Its strategy is to boost the value of KENKO Mayonnaise by raising the
recognition and brand power of Salad Cafes.Recurring profit is expected
to swing to an increase from a decline of FY3/14, and examining the main
reasons behind fluctuation in profits, the impact of increased sales, price
revisions and changes in raw material prices are expected to be factors tending
to boost earnings by \155 million, \542 million and \102 million. On the other
hand, factors that are expected to reduce profits include costs due to
consolidation of production facilities of \207 million, increases in fixed and
other costs of \108 million, and \42 million from the impact of increased
logistics cost pricing. In respect of fluctuations in
raw material prices, up to Q2 this has been a cause behind reduced earnings,
however, it will be a cause for increased earnings over the full year. In
respect of the market price for eggs, it is thought that high pricing levels
will continue in H2, and that this factor will contribute to a \400 million
reduction in earnings over the full year. However, it is expected that this can
be covered as a result of price reductions in cooking oil, which is also a key
ingredient. In respect of cooking oil, the Company’s purchase pricing was affected by the price movement of Chicago
soybean futures market at a lag of half a year to nine months, and given that
this year will reflect the 2013 purchase prices, when Chicago market prices
started to decline, thus this price decline will make a positive contribution.Further, in respect of
overseas business, given that Chinese business will become profitable on an
annualized base in the 2015 fiscal year, the Company is proceeding to focus
management resources. Specifically, apart from closing its Dongguan Factory in
August and consolidating production facilities at its Hangzhou Factory, its
policy is to promote customer acquisition focusing sales systems also on the
Eastern China region. In China the Company is undertaking the manufacture and
sale of ketchup, mayonnaise, salads and other products, and though around 65%
of sales being to the joint venture’s
group companies, the price for group companies is constrained and this is also
a factor behind sluggish performance of the Chinese business. Apart from reducing
costs by raising productivity through consolidation of its production
facilities, the Company through moves including increasing sales by way of new
customer acquisition, aims among other things to become profitable, and is
expected to have sales from its Chinese joint venture up 50% y-o-y of \1,600
million (with H1 sales of \700 million).In Indonesian business, sales
of commercial mayonnaise and liquid eggs are steady. With the factory only
having been established from October 2013, the Company aims going forward to
increase sales by promoting a strengthening of marketing. Further, the
Indonesian factory has obtained Halal certification, and it is planned for it
to also develop activities such as exports. Exports of Halal compliant products
to Japan are scheduled from February 2015. In Japan, the number of tourists and
business travellers from overseas is increasing, and thus it is expected that
demand including at foreign hotels, for in-flight meals and at airport
restaurants will expand. Also, while the timing of monetization is fluid, given
that upfront investment costs are high, the Company has stated that it aims to
achieve profitability in FY3/16 for overall overseas business.◆Growth Strategies Focusing on Global Development & Expanding Business
Domains Midterm Management Plan IV
(Fourth) 2012-2014 The Company is now
implementing the “Midterm Management Plan IV
(Fourth) 2012-2014,” of which FY3/15 is the plan’s final year. It has tackled five themes under the plan with the
aim of “raising its business presence as a
company that creates/proposes new ideas.” The following is a brief presentation of the status of those
efforts. ○Becoming a global
company Aiming to become a global
company, KENKO Mayo has expanded business into China and Indonesia through
joint ventures. From Japan, the company now exports dressings, mayonnaise and
other products to 25 countries and regions. In FY3/13, it had export sales of
\200 million and targets export sales of \500 million in FY3/15. ○Expansion of Business
Domains In terms of expanding business
domains the Company is expanding functional products, rolling out its new full
flavored “the world’s sauces” and “the world’s salad” Cuisine products, and promoting EC (electronic commerce)
website expansion. The Company has developed new
functional products that meet diverse needs, including low calorie non-oil
dressings, euglena added dressing, egg free and powdered mayonnaise, and is
launching them on the market. Also, the Company updated its EC website in July,
expanding its chilled product response and product line-up (125 items as of the
end of December 2014), and adding a user review function, promoting the
acquisition of a regular customer segment. In addition, as a new
initiative it announced a commercial alliance with Toshiba <6502> in
November 2014. In particular, they are cooperating by way of the Company
providing proposals relating to mayonnaise, dressings and sauces, as well as
information in relation to salad specialty shop Salad Cafe’s salads to Toshiba, Toshiba providing marketing and sales
channel information relating to vegetable factories operated by Toshiba, and in
respect of, among other things, investigation into product design, manufacture,
and marketing of collaborative products by the companies. As the first step in its
commercial alliance, from November 28, 2014, sales of a collaborative product,
namely vegetables produced at Toshiba’s
vegetable factories with the Company’s
powdered dressing attached, were commenced. Going forward, placing this product
into other distribution channels is being considered.○Establishing “Salad Cuisine,” and practicing its strategy
as a company that creates/ proposes new ideas As an initiative aimed at
establishing Salad Cuisine as well as expanding the salad market, apart from
making menu proposals by industry type through hosting events aimed at the food
service industry, the Company is also concentrating on “salad cuisine recipes”
utilizing its corporate website. The number of recipes has grown from around
370 from the end of March 2014 to approximately 740 by the end of December.
Also, utilizing the media also, following on from commencing broadcasts of “Salad Talk Oshigoto Cafe” from October 2013 on ABC Radio in Kansai area (8:25-8:40 every
Sunday), the Company commenced broadcasts in Kanto area also from October 2014
on TBS Radio (17:15-17:30 every Sunday). ○Promoting and spreading
the Salad Cafe brand Through its Salad Cafe shops,
the Company learns about consumer needs while raising its brand power. At
present, 16 shops have been opened in major urban areas, and it plans to open
stores while focusing on profitability. Additionally, in order to create Salad
Cafe fans, apart from holding salad meal workshops (five times annually), it is
also undertaking the publication of a recipe collection.○Personnel development
and systems enhancement As part of its personnel
development, from this term the Company has newly implemented hierarchical
training (compulsory participation) and selective training (training for future
CEO and mid-management levels). Also, to strengthen systems it is planning the
introduction of a new production management system in FY3/15. This system will
be able to handle matters such as standardization and optimization of factory
operations, visibility regarding the cost of merchandise, and reinforcement of
traceability, and is expected will improve productivity going forward, as well
as be something that reinforces further food safety and security measures.◆Financial Status and Policy of Shareholder Returns Interest Bearing Liabilities Declines and Improvement in
Financial Standing Proceeding (1) Financial Status The financial status as of the
end of September 2014 shows a decline in total assets of \690 million y-o-y to
\38,996 million. The main factors for variation were declines in cash and
deposits of \399 million, and in deferred tax assets of \258 million. On the other hand, liabilities
declined \1,704 million y-o-y to \22,171 million. Apart from a \829 million
decline in interest bearing liabilities, this was mainly due to a \543 million
decline in retirement benefit obligations. Also, net assets rose \1,014 million
y-o-y to \16,824 million, with a \914 million increase in retained earnings
being the main reason. Examining management
indicators, despite a temporary deterioration in the shareholders’ equity ratio and debt-to-equity ratio from an increase in
interest bearing liabilities associated with the implementation of large scale
capital investments in the preceding term, as at the end of September this year
both have recovered to levels as at the end of March 2013. The capital
investment plan for the FY3/15 is \780 million, with no large scale investments
planned, with it expected that further improvement in the Company’s financial status will proceed steadily.Aiming for a payout ratio of 20% or more, with a \2
dividend rise schedule due to a recovery in performance (2) Shareholder Return Policy The company’s shareholder returns are cash dividend payments and special
gift exclusive for shareholders. On the basis of a dividend payout ratio of 20%
on a consolidated basis, and out of consideration for the continuity of
dividends, its policy is to stably raising dividends in line with the Company
growth, development and its increased earnings. In FY3/15, as operating results
are expected to recover, the company plans to pay a dividend of \23, a \2
increase, for a dividend payout ratio of 20.6%. Therefore, if there is growth
in operating results in FY3/16 and after, it is highly likely to increase cash
dividends.As a special gift to shareholders,
KENKO Mayo presents the company’s products as gifts to
shareholders of register as of March 31. A present with a value of \1,000 is
given to shareholders with 100 to 999 shares, while a present with a value of
\2,500 is given to shareholders of 1,000 or more shares. Including shareholder
benefits the return on investment per single share, calculated on a share price
of \1,412 as of January 19, is at the 2.34% mark. 報告內容僅供參考，不得作為任何投資引用之唯一依據，且其投資風險及決定應由投資人自行判斷並自負損益。