MedicalSystemNetwork(JP-4350)TokyoStockExchangeFirstSectionSteadilyimprovingprofitability,aimingfordouble-digitrevenue&earningsgrowthinFY3/15(I)
  2015-01-19 提供機構：FISCO 作者：FISCO 點閱次數：10   

Medical System Network
<4350> (hereafter, “the Company”) has developed two main businesses: a dispensing pharmacy
business, and a pharmaceutical network business that caters to small- and
medium-sized pharmacies. In the dispensing pharmacy business it is promoting
its Group expansion strategy through proactively employing M&A. The Company
aims for consolidated sales in the order of ¥300bn in 10 years. Consolidated 1H FY3/15 results
were basically in line with management’s
plan, with consolidated sales up 18.0% y-o-y to ¥35,911mn, while operating profit was down 26.4% to ¥888mn. Despite sales from Total Medical Services (TMS), that was
consolidated as a subsidiary in November last year contributing to sales
growth, operating profit declined due to factors such as the impact from the
NHI (National Health Insurance) drug price and dispensing fee revision in
April. FY3/15 consolidated sales and
operating profit are expected to show double-digit growth in both revenues and
earnings, with consolidated sales of ¥76,013mn
(+14.9% y-o-y) and operating profit of ¥2,404mn (+15.0% y-o-y). Apart from anticipating expansion in the
number of member pharmacies in the pharmaceutical network business, within the
dispensing pharmacy business the Company will seek to improve store
profitability through measures to strengthen the handling of generic drugs and
home care operations. Further, profits are expected to grow due to reductions
in indirect costs from the impact of the consolidation of regional subsidiaries
and full-scale operation of the Company’s Dispensing Headquarter systems. There is the possibility that
sales will fall marginally below plan with a curbing of the number of new
stores opened, however, profitability is improving steadily, and we feel that,
on the basis of profits, it is possible the Company will meet its plan. The market environment for dispensing
pharmacies is becoming harsher year by year for small-and medium-sized
pharmacies, with joining one of the major player groups or participating in the
Company’s network arguably becoming powerful
survival choices. Actually, in the Company’s network business in H1, including posting a record high for
new member numbers on a semi-annual basis, the pace of growth is accelerating,
and further growth may be expected in this segment. Domestically there are 57,000 pharmacies, with the majority
being medium- and small-scale pharmacies. At the same time as experiencing
growth in member numbers in the Company’s network business, in its dispensing pharmacy business it is
also seeking store expansion while proactively engaging also in M&A. The
strategy being is to aim for further earnings growth with these respective
businesses operating in concert.◆Company Outline Operations divided into the
Pharmaceutical Network & Dispensing Pharmacy Businesses The Company has two main businesses: the dispensing pharmacy
business and the pharmaceutical network business. It is also undertaking
peripheral businesses including rental and other medical facility-related
operations, catering services and clinical facility support services. The
pharmaceutical network business is conducted by Medical System Network and
subsidiaries System Four and H&M, while the dispensing pharmacy business is
conducted by PHARMAHOLDINGS CO.,LTD., its subsidiaries and the Hokkaido
Institute for Pharmacy Benefit Co., Ltd.Looking at the breakdown by segment (1H FY3/15) we see that
while the operation of pharmacies represents more than 90% of total
consolidated sales, operating profit may be virtually split into the
pharmaceutical network and dispensing pharmacy businesses, allowing us to
understand that these are the Company’s
two core businesses. An overview of each segment is as set out below.○Pharmaceutical Network BusinessA business engaged in since the Company’s establishment, the pharmaceutical network business is
conducted by Medical System Network and two subsidiaries, System Four and
H&M. The business model is one that supports enhancement in the level of
pharmaceutical distribution efficiency by acting as an intermediary in
pharmaceutical sales between dispensing pharmacies, medical institutions and
pharmaceutical wholesalers. By becoming a member of the Company’s network, apart from supply chain management services, a
participant can access services such as dead stock exchange services (immobile
stock liquidation), pharmacist training support and fund procurement support.In its supply chain management
service, not only is efficiency in day-to-day ordering, settlement and
inventory control operations improved, the Company also acts as an agent in
price negotiations. By installing the Company’s Order Entry (O/E) System, apart from improving productivity in
the sections in charge at member stores, from a price negotiation perspective
also, because the Company undertakes negotiations previously conducted by
individual pharmacies collectively, it gives rise to the merit of being able to
purchase stock on better terms than achieved previously. The dead stock exchange
service (immobile stock liquidation) is a system that allows member pharmacies
to exchange dead stock at each of their stores, efficiently reducing
pharmaceutical disposal losses. In its pharmacist training
support service, apart from holding 30–40
group training (seminars) nationwide per month to improve pharmacist skills,
the Company also undertakes eLearning courses. Also, the Company operates a
pharmacy payment claim securitization service as a fund procurement support
service. Given that, at an average of approximately two months, the sales
proceeds collection period for dispensing pharmacies is quite lengthy, the
Company employs a securitization scheme for these receivables aimed at
providing support from a funding perspective. The benefit when using the system
is that sales proceeds collections may be reduced by more than one month. Also, the Company conducts development, sales and maintenance
operations for the receipt computer systems, O/E systems and peripheral
equipment that it installs in dispending pharmacies, as well as sales of
prescription dispensing machines, fixtures and fittings.Moreover, target customers in
its pharmaceutical network services are small-scale companies operating 20 or
fewer pharmacies and dispensing pharmacies operated by sole traders. As of
end-September 2014, the combined number of member pharmacies in the network,
including those in the Group and external members, was 1,053 (including 30
hospitals and clinics). This is a year-on-year decline of 110, however, this
was due to the withdrawal of a large trading counterparty in April 2014 (230
pharmacies) which had ceased trading, and taking that aside there was an
increase of 120 pharmacies, which set a record for increases in the number of
new members on a half-yearly basis. Further, by region, Hokkaido, where the
Company was founded, Kanto and Koshinetsu represent almost half of overall
pharmacy numbers, followed by the Kinki, Tokai and Hokuriku regions in that
order. By adding Total Medical Service to the Group in November 2013 by way of
TOB, which is based in Kyushu, pharmacy numbers in the Kyushu and Okinawa
regions increased significantly, with a roll-out currently covering 42
prefectures. Additionally, sales from this segment arise corresponding with
order volumes from member pharmacies, with ordering fees and system sales
representing the majority of overall sales. It is a stock business model in
which sales rise stably in line with increases in member pharmacy numbers, and
with operating profit margins in the range of 45–55% it forms a stable, highly profitable business.○Dispensing Pharmacy
Business The dispensing pharmacy
business, with subsidiary PHARMAHOLDINGS acting as a holding company, through
its 10 subsidiaries (as of end-September 2014), is developing dispensing
pharmacies, mainly under the Nanohana Pharmacy brand. A distinctive feature of
Nanohana pharmacies is that they aim To be community pharmacies that offer to
regional communities a range of health-related services, breaking free from the
simple dispensing pharmacy chain model. At the end of September 2014
the number of dispensing pharmacies was 331 (excluding 1 store that has
currently suspended operations), with the Company operating an additional two
Healthcare centers, 12 drug stores, and one welfare equipment rental center. By
region, Hokkaido has the greatest number with 111, followed by Kanto/Koshinetsu
with 70, and Kinki with 52 stores. The Company is expanding its number of
stores nationally, while also employing M&A. Further, at its subsidiary,
the Hokkaido Institute for Pharmacy Benefit, it provides training services to
pharmacists and operations staff at both internal Group and external dispensing
pharmacies. In the last few years the operating profit margin has trended at
3–5%, being slightly below average levels
in comparison to major pharmacy players, and making improving profitability at
each store an issue going forward.○Rental & Medical
Facilities-related Business Medical System Network
subsidiary Nihon Leben mainly develops sites for building group pharmacies, as
well as renting buildings for medical services, car leasing and insurance
services. Further, at the same time as offering consulting services for medical
practices, it also operates medical malls that gather multiple treatment
disciplines on the same floor, medical buildings that gather clinics in one
building, and elderly housing with supportive services (herein “EHSS”). ○Catering Business The food service division of
Total Medical Service (TMS), that was consolidated as a subsidiary in November
2013, and its subsidiary, Sakura Foods, engage in catering outsourcing
operations within hospitals and welfare facilities. ○ Other Business Medical System Network subsidiary SMO Medisys contracts with
clinical trial facilities (medical institutions) as a clinical site management
organization to provide support services for clinical trials.◆Business Trends 1H FY3/15 consolidated
results above initial Company plan on a profit basis (1) H1 FY3/15 Results The H1 FY3/15 consolidated results announced on October 31 show
consolidated sales up 18.0% y-o-y to ¥35,911mn,
operating profit down 26.4% y-o-y to ¥888mn,
recurring profit down 27.5% y-o-y to ¥850mn,
and net profit down 46.7% to ¥230mn. Compared with the
initial Company plan, while sales fall marginally short, on a profit basis all
other figures exceeded plan.The impact of adding sales
from TMS, which was consolidated as a subsidiary in November 2013 was a
significant factor in the growth in consolidated sales. On the other hand,
examining by segment the reasons for the decline in operating profit, profit
declines of ¥262mn in the dispensing pharmacy business
represented the majority of overall declines, with all segments, with the
exception of the pharmaceutical network business, contributing to lower income.
In the dispensing pharmacy business, despite a revenue
contribution from M&A effected in the previous term, this year marks the
biennial NHI drug price and dispensing fee revision, the result of which, in
addition to causing sales to decline at existing stores, is a factor leading to
lower profits, including higher headquarter costs. Also, the headquarter costs
for TMS, which was consolidated as a subsidiary, are included in consolidated
headquarter costs. The fiscal term for drug price revisions occurs in the
April-September period, usually bringing with it a tendency to lower
profitability, with movements this time arguably being virtually in line with
expectations.The COGs ratio declined from 64.8% in the same period last year
to 62.3%, while conversely the SG&A ratio rose from 31.2% to 35.2%,
however, this was mainly in the dispensing pharmacy business, where, in order
to ease increased burden from rises in the consumption tax (a cause for
increases in the SG&A ratio), the impact from adjustments in the drug price
revision percentages, aimed at expanding drug price margins (a cause for the
lower COGs ratio) was significant. (Note) Additionally, extraordinary losses
widened by approximately ¥100mn, which was due to a
blowout (¥163mn) in impairment losses on store
assets. Also, one other factor as regards the SG&A ratio was a rise in the
staff cost ratio from 18.3% to 19.9% resulting from M&A activities.Note: In purchasing pharmaceuticals pharmacies bear the
consumption tax (cost), however, given that no consumption tax is incurred at
the point of sale, the consumption tax increase becomes a factor behind
increased cost prices (increased tax and public dues). As a result, in order to
ease the pharmacy’s burden from increased taxes,
drug prices are revised, aiming to expand drug price margins (selling price — purchase price).Trends by segment are as set out below.○ Pharmaceutical Network
Business Consolidated sales from the pharmaceutical network business
declined 6.9% y-o-y to ¥1,353mn, while operating
profit rose 2.9% y-o-y to ¥737mn. While systems sales
declined, gains in revenue from the highly profitable ordering fee income was a
factor in increased profits.As of end-September 2014 the
number of member pharmacies declined by 32 stores year-on-year to 1,053,
however, as noted above, the impact from the withdrawal of one large trading
counterparty (230 stores) group was significant. The impact was also felt in a
significant decline in order volumes which fell 16.5% y-o-y to ¥44,463mn. The fact that fee income from new member pharmacies
were able to cover this was a reason ordering fees rose despite this incident. Examining the number of general member pharmacies, excluding
large counterparties, stores numbers were 573 at end-September 2103, 612 at
end-march 2014 and 722 at end-September 2014, the rise in numbers for the most
recent half-year of 110 stores being a record high pace for new participants.Two factors may be cited
behind the increase in member numbers. Firstly, a fixed period from the NHI
drug price revision to September 30 was newly established as deadline to
finalize terms in the price negotiations with pharmaceutical wholesalers. By
way of penalty, dispensing fees will be lowered for pharmacies that have not
agreed terms for over 50% of items within this period. Arguably, by applying
penalties on the buyer side mid-tier pharmacies operating 20-30 stores in
particular will feel the pinch in purchase price negotiations. This is because
previously, even at this type of mid-tier pharmacy, by dragging out price
negotiations, were able to agree on purchasing price terms similar to large
pharmacy chains. By establishing a deadline for
price negotiations mid-tier purchase price negotiations become tighter, and
thus joining a major pharmacy group or the Company’s network have come to be powerful survival options, which may
be viewed as a factor behind the increase in member numbers. Actually,
previously, many of the companies becoming members of the Company’s network were those operating in the order of 3-5 pharmacy
stores, however, recently mid-tier companies operating 10-20 stores have
started to increase. What may be considered as a
second factor is that there were a certain number of pharmacies that waited for
the results of the NHI drug price revision to determine whether or not to join.
Actually, in FY3/14 the annual number of increases in general member stores was
78, a slowdown compared with the 133 in the previous year. Accordingly, the
pace of increase from October onwards will be a focus of attention, however,
the Company feels that member numbers will continue to increase at the same
rate. ○ Dispensing Pharmacy
Business Consolidated sales in the dispensing pharmacy business rose
16.6% y-o-y to ¥34,061mn, with operating profit declining
24.4% y-o-y to ¥813mn. As noted above, the impact on
sales from expansion in stores numbers due to TMS and other M&A was
significant, while from a profit perspective, the impact of the NHI drug price
and dispensing fees revision was a cause of lower profits.The status of stores openings
in H1 showed 6 new store openings, three companies (9 stores) acquired by
purchase of common stock, one store acquired via a transfer of operations,
while on the other hand six non-profitable stores were closed. As of the end of
September, store numbers showed 331 dispensing pharmacy stores (excluding one
store at which operations have been suspended), which is an increase of 49
stores compared with the end of September the previous year. Among the
companies acquired by M&A this time, there is Medical Brain Y.K., based in
Shiga Prefecture, which has a total of 7 stores, and apart from proactively
tackling home care, has also developed operations such as a care facility and a
nursing care equipment rental business. It is a company that undertakes
operations with deep roots in regional community medicine, and forms the
direction the Company would like to aim at going forward. Within sales, looking at the status of existing stores,
dispensing fees rose 0.9% y-o-y, which was higher than the Company plan of 0.6%
decline. The breakdown shows a 0.3% rise in the number of prescriptions, and a
0.7% rise in the prescription unit price. In the prescription unit price, both
the technical fee unit cost and the medication unit cost rose by 0.6% and 0.7%
respectively. In respect of the technical fee unit cost, fee incentive factors
such as the number of pharmacies eligible for generic dispensing systems
incentive and basic dispensing incentive have increased steadily.Aside from that, seeking to
reduce indirect costs, the Company progressed the consolidation of regional
subsidiaries. Apart from the merger of Sunmedic K.K. (the surviving entity) and
Tomioka Pharmacy K.K. (the defunct entity) in April, in July CR Medical K.K.
(the surviving entity) and MCS K.K. (the defunct entity), as well as TMS (Tokyo
Medical Supply) (the surviving entity) and Kyushu Pharmacy K.K. (the defunct
entity) merged respectively. ○Rental & Medical
Facility-related Business Sales from the rental and
medical facility-related business rose 15.0% y-o-y to ¥715mn, with an operating loss of ¥21mn (versus a ¥6mn loss in the previous
term). While real estate rental income rose, front loading of depreciation and
amortization expenses incurred by Wisteria Kiyota (Kiyota Ward, Sapporo City)
EHSS (elderly housing with supportive services) operations that commenced in
May 2013 and increased hr costs due to the Company seeking to strengthen its staffing
structures for new EHSS developments were the factors behind lower profits (at
end-September staff numbers were up 19 y-o-y to 67). The occupancy status in the
second EHSS Site Wisteria Kiyota as of end-September was that 55 of the total
75 units were occupied, being broadly speaking a satisfactory performance, with
the breakeven point of 60 units within reach. ○ Catering Business,
Other Business The catering business, that
was newly added by way of the consolidation of TMS as a subsidiary, had sales
of ¥967mn and an operating loss of ¥6mn. A condition that was attached at the time of consolidating
TMS as a subsidiary was that in the event that the catering business made a
loss in either FY3/15 or FY3/16 on an operating profit basis, it could be sold
to TMS’ CEO, Mr. Shigeki Ono, for ¥400mn plus net cash (cash and deposits less interest bearing
liabilities). Looking at it on a quarterly basis, since becoming a subsidiary,
it had continued to make operating losses of around ¥10mn, however, in Q2, for the first time, it shifted to a profit
of ¥3mn. Further, clinical trial
support operations developed by subsidiary, SMO Medisys, form its other
business, which showed sales down 24.9% y-o-y to ¥92mn and an operating loss of ¥37mn (versus a profit of ¥6mn in the same period a year earlier). These operations are
being developed in Hokkaido, however, due to changes in the particulars of the
clinical trials, there were amongst other things delays in securing new
projects, and thus it performed poorly.  報告內容僅供參考，不得作為任何投資引用之唯一依據，且其投資風險及決定應由投資人自行判斷並自負損益。