TreasureFactoryCo.,LTD.(JP-3093)TokyoStockExchangeFirstSectionBrisksalesbyexistingstoresleadgrowth
  2015-05-28 提供機構：FISCO 作者：FISCO 點閱次數：12   

Treasure Factory Co., Ltd.
(3093) operates Treasure Factory stores, which handle many types of second-hand
goods, and other stores that specialize in buying and selling limited kinds of
second-hand goods, including apparel, fashion goods, sporting goods, and
outdoor goods. It operates 79 directly managed stores and has 4 franchise
stores, located mainly in the Greater Tokyo area. The company’s sales and profits continue to grow notably, reflecting several
strengths: a strategy of matching goods handled to the characteristics of a
geographical market, an ability to purchase on a regular basis many kinds of
goods for many uses, and an ability to accurately appraise the marketability of
used items. On April 10, 2015, the company
announced its business results for the fiscal year through February, i.e., for
FY2/15. Sales rose 17.0% year on year (YoY) to \10,682mn, while ordinary income
advanced 32.4% YoY to \966mn. This growth was led by a 7.9% YoY increase in
existing-store sales, i.e., sales by stores in operation for more than a year.
By choosing goods handled more selectively than in the past, the company raised
its average selling price, and by offering appropriate prices, it stabilized
its purchases. Sales of all categories of goods, including mainline apparel and
fashion items, as well as electric appliances and furniture, grew by more than
15% YoY. The ordinary income ratio exceeded 9% in FY2/15 for the first time
because the upturn in existing-store sales more than offset increases in
personnel costs and other costs. For FY2/16, the company
projects an 11.0% YoY increase in sales to \11,853mn and an 8.8% rise in
ordinary income to \1,052mn. These forecasts are based on the conservative
assumptions that existing-store sales and the gross profit ratio just match
their levels in FY2/15. The company plans to open 11–13 new stores in FY2/16, mainly in the Greater Tokyo and Kansai
areas, including more shops that specialize in the sale of a limited number of
types of second-hand goods. It is also considering opening new stores and
developing new businesses in the Chubu and northern Kanto areas. Over the medium term, the
company aims to maintain double-digit YoY sales growth and to lift its ordinary
income ratio to 10% at an early stage. While opening more stores in Japan, the
company plans to strengthen its operational base by expanding its business into
Asian countries other than Japan. It also intends to continue to raise its
annual dividend per share, thereby increasing its dividend payout ratio to 25%.
For FY2/16, the company plans to pay a dividend of \11 per share, after
allowing for a two-for-one share split planned for June 1, 2015. This would be
\2 more than its adjusted dividend for FY2/15. Furthermore, for each
shareholder at the end of each fiscal year, the company presents a \1,000 QUO
card, a Treasure Loto raffle ticket, and a purchase price booster coupon.◆Operational Overview Developing Treasure Factory stores and other reuse stores
(1) Businesses Treasure Factory’s main business is the operation of stores in Greater Tokyo and
Greater Osaka that trade in second-hand goods, such as apparel, electric appliances,
furniture, brand-name goods, and miscellaneous items. It has five business
lines: Treasure Factory stores deal in many kinds of goods, Treasure Factory
Style stores handle ordinary apparel and fashion items, Brand Collect stores
sell brand-name apparel, Treasure Factory Sports stores handle sporting and
outdoor goods, and UseLet stores deal in outlet sales of used clothing. The company also rents fashion
items, such as brand handbags and accessories, but this business supplies less
than 1% of total sales and marginal profits. In
recent years, the company has opened 5–9 new stores per year. At the end of
FY2/15, it operated 78 stores directly and had 4 franchise stores. Of these, 50
were Treasure Factory stores, but in the past few years, the company has been
opening more Treasure Factory Style stores and other specialty reuse stores. Of
the total stores, 72 are located in Greater Tokyo, including one in Ibaraki
Prefecture, while six are in Greater Osaka, a region the company entered in
2013. All four franchise stores are in Fukushima Prefecture. The company plans
to increase the number of its directly managed stores.In
FY2/15, the company derived 41.5% of its sales from apparel and slightly more
than 18% each from electric appliances and fashion items. The company purchases
just over 70% of its goods from individuals and just over 20% from companies
that deal in new and used goods. Most of the goods purchased from individuals
are brought to company stores by the sellers. However, the company also picks
up goods from homes and has goods picked up by delivery services. Goods
purchased from individuals tend to be sold more profitably than goods purchased
from dealers.Purchasing, appraisal, and business management are main
strengths (2) Strengths and Store Traits
The company has three main
strengths: an ability to regularly acquire a large number of goods for many
purposes, an ability to appraise goods accurately in order to assign an
appropriate price, and an ability to manage store operations effectively,
supported by the real-time monitoring of various measures of business
performance. It is difficult to assign an appropriate price to each reuse item,
so it is important to control the variability of appraisal of these items. The
company uses an appraisal support system, based on a POS system developed
in-house, to control appraisal variability between staff and expedite staff
training. This appraisal support system is a source of competitiveness. The
company stocks a range of goods that fit the characteristics of a commercial
area and the customers in it. It also builds stores that exhibit individuality.
These stores display goods in a manner that beckons customers to examine the
goods as if they were searching for a treasure. Because of their ability to buy
goods regularly, the stores present a sales atmosphere of fresh turnover. Such
stores appeal to many customers and contribute to a rise in the repeat sales
rate.◆Business Trends Sales and profits hit record highs in FY2/15 and the
ordinary income ratio exceeded 9% for the first time (1) Summary of FY2/15 Results In
FY2/15, sales grew 17.0% YoY to \10,682mn, and ordinary income rose 32.4% YoY
to \966mn. The sales increase was the 19th straight rise, ever since the
company was founded. The upturn in ordinary income was the 11th in a row of
record highs. Sales and profits surpassed the company’s forecasts, and the
ordinary income ratio exceeded 9% for the first time.Sales
growth was led by a 7.9% YoY rise in existing-store sales. Many retailers in
Japan suffered sales declines after the country’s consumption tax was raised
from 5% to 8% as of April 1, 2014, but Treasure Factory’s sales advanced YoY
for every month of FY2/15, going beyond company expectations. The company’s
gross profit ratio rose 0.3ppt in FY2/15, reflecting proper pricing without
discounts. Accompanying the opening of new stores, the company’s personnel cost
increased by \383mn and its rental cost rose by \167mn. Thus, its overall
SG&A expenses increased, but this increase was more than offset by the rise
in existing-store sales, so the ratio of SG&A expenses to sales declined by
1.0ppt YoY.Sales
growth was balanced in FY2/15, as the sales of every main product category,
including apparel, fashion items, electric appliances, and furniture, grew by
more than 15% YoY. The rise in sales of electric appliances and furniture was
supported by the expansion of a distribution center and an improvement in purchasing
capability in FY2/14.The company continues to open several new stores per
year, and store renovations are improving profitability (2) New Store Openings In FY2/15, the company opened
or acquired nine new stores, five in Greater Tokyo and four in Greater Osaka.
Three of the new stores were Treasure Factory stores, three were Treasure
Factory Style stores, and one was the first Treasure Factory Sports store. In
October 2014, the company bought a business which trades in brand-name used
apparel, which had only one Brand Collect store, and the company then added
another store. The Brand Collect stores also sell through the Brand Collect
site on the internet. The company’s initial Treasure Factory Sports store has been generating more
sales than management had foreseen because it can offer a wide range of goods,
including highly specialized goods, and thereby satisfy the needs of many
customers. The initial Brand Collect
store is in the fashionable Harajuku area of Tokyo. After acquiring this store,
the company renovated it, overhauled its offering of goods, and installed the
company’s system for operational management.
Therefore, the store’s profitability is improving.
About half of the store’s customers are foreigners due
to its location, so it is benefiting from the increase in foreign visitors to
Japan. The
company also raised its profitability in FY2/15 by renovating its Treasure
Factory Style store in Inage, Chiba Prefecture. In November 2014, the company
relocated this store temporarily and renovated the existing store, doubling its
sales area. This greatly expanded the store’s sales and profits. The company
intends to renovate other existing stores to further lift sales and profits.◆Business Outlook The company could surpass its conservative forecasts for
FY2/16 (1) Company Forecasts for
FY2/16 The
company forecasts that FY2/16 sales will rise 11.0% YoY to \11,853mn, operating
income will climb 8.7% to \1,039mn, ordinary income will grow 8.8% to \1,052mn,
and net income will advance 11.4% to \631mn. These forecasts are based on the
conservative assumptions that FY2/16 existing-store sales and gross profit
ratio will remain the same as in FY2/15. In March 2015, the company’s existing-store
sales grew 4.0% YoY for the 13th straight month of YoY rises. Consequently,
there appears to be ample opportunity for the company to overshoot its
forecasts.The company plans to open 11–13 new stores in FY2/16 (of which, three stores have already
been determined), including 3–4 Treasure Factory stores, 3–4 Treasure Factory Style stores, and 1–2 stores each of the new Brand Collect store, Treasure Factory
Sports store, and UseLet store businesses. It also aims to develop other new
businesses. To strengthen its specialty
stores, the company intends to expand its purchases and sales through the
internet in FY2/16, mainly through Treasure Factory Style online and the Brand
Collect site. In the future, the company plans to construct a distribution center
in Greater Osaka, where it is opening more new stores. For H1
FY2/16, the company projects an 11.2% YoY rise in sales but a 9.7% YoY decrease
in ordinary income, reflecting a concentration of costs for opening new stores
and other costs in H1.Targeting double-digit sales growth and an ordinary
income ratio of 10% (2) Medium-Term Strategies Over the medium term, the
company plans to maintain double-digit YoY sales growth and to achieve an
ordinary income ratio of 10% at an early stage. To achieve these goals, it will
implement the following three strategies. ○Accelerate the opening
of general and specialty stores in Japan At the end of FY2/15, the
company directly operated only 78 stores, mainly in Greater Tokyo. Since 2013,
it has been opening stores in Greater Osaka, but it had only six stores there
at the end of last fiscal year. There is ample room to increase the number of
its stores, and the company intends to open more General Reuse Stores and
profitable specialty reuse stores in Greater Tokyo, Greater Osaka, and other
metropolitan areas of Japan. Treasure Factory competitor Hard Off Corporation
(2674) has more than 700 stores, suggesting the scope of expansion available to
Treasure Factory. ○Develop new businesses The company plans to continue
to develop new businesses. Having launched many successful specialty goods
stores, the company will accumulate know-how in handling specialty goods and
improve its ability to purchase them, thereby expanding the range of goods
offered. It also hopes to expand the range of customer categories served by
offering new businesses. It intends to develop new businesses using goods it
currently handles. ○Strengthen internet
business Currently,
the company derives only 2–3% of its sales through the internet and purchases
the same proportion of its goods through the internet, which are retrieved by
delivery services. Japan’s market for second-hand goods was valued at about
\1.2 trillion in the government’s report for fiscal 2012, i.e., the year
through March 2013. More than half of the second-hand goods purchases were made
through the internet that year. Thus, it is important for the company to expand
its transactions through the internet in order to grow. The company provides a
point service and information about its stores through the Treasure Factory
smartphone app. It is considering the development of an internet shopping
capability and plans to strengthen its internet business by linking it to its
stores.◆Shareholder Return Policy The company plans to start paying an interim dividend and
to raise its full-year dividend by \2 per share The company policy is to pay a
regular dividend reflecting its profit growth, and the company aims to achieve
a dividend payout ratio of 25% in the near term. Treasure Factory plans to
start paying an interim dividend in FY2/16. It also plans to offer a
two-for-one stock split on June 1, 2015. Adjusted for this stock split, it
plans to pay a full-year dividend of \11 per share for FY2/16, which is \2
higher than its adjusted dividend for FY2/15. Based on the company’s earnings per share forecast for FY2/16 and its planned
dividend, its dividend payout ratio will rise to 19.5%. In order to lift this
ratio to 25%, the company is likely to increase its dividend in the coming
years if its profits continue to grow. At the
end of each fiscal year, the company also awards each shareholder with a \1,000
QUO card, a Treasure Loto raffle ticket, and a purchase price booster coupon. 報告內容僅供參考，不得作為任何投資引用之唯一依據，且其投資風險及決定應由投資人自行判斷並自負損益。