SoftcreateHoldings(JP-3371)TokyoStockExchangeFirstSectionDrivingfastergrowthbycapturingsynergiesbetweene-commercesupportandInternetadvertising(I)
  2015-01-30 提供機構：FISCO 作者：FISCO 點閱次數：21   

Softcreate Holdings Corp.
<3371> positions the e-commerce (EC) solutions business as its core
operation – a business that provides EC support
services to corporate customers that range from medium-sized to large
companies. More than 800 corporate customers have used these services on a
cumulative basis, with the company expecting that number to increase to over
900 by the end of March 2015. Softcreate Holdings commands a share of over 40%
of the domestic market for EC support services, making it the market-share
leader in this service sector. The EC solutions business’ services are centered on the construction, operation and
maintenance of EC websites. However, the company is also focusing on Internet
advertising agency services (the digital marketing business). It intends to
drive faster growth by capturing synergies from undertaking both e-commerce
support and Internet advertising services simultaneously. Initially, the
company won a considerable amount of Internet advertising contracts by
providing its EC solutions services customers with Internet advertising as an
additional service. However, Internet advertising services are now gradually
helping the company to win EC solutions services contracts in an increasing
number of instances. Management of Softcreate Holdings has emphasized increasing
profitability while distancing from low-margin and high-risk businesses. Until
now, this strategy has delivered the intended results. The company has a high
return on equity (ROE) and provided generous shareholder returns. Looking
ahead, the company is expected to remain on a growth trajectory driven by the
synergistic effect of the two businesses. Growth in the digital marketing
business should ripple out to the EC solutions business, which should, in turn,
catalyze expansion in the digital marketing business. We believe that new
contracts received in the EC solutions business and the digital marketing
business should be watched closely as the key performance indicators (KPIs) of
Softcreate Holdings’ business and performance
growth.◆Company Outline The company has strengthened software programs developed
in-house in the course of providing consigned development services. (1) Company History In August 1969, the
predecessor of Softcreate Holdings, Shirozaka Sangyo Co., was established as a
private company with limited liability. In May 1983, the company reinvented
itself as an information and communications enterprise from the real estate
business with the opening of its first Soft Create personal computer shop. It
has remained active in the information and communications sector to this day. In its early years as an
information and communications enterprise, Softcreate Holdings initially saw
the operation of personal computer shops as its core business and sought to
develop a chain of such shops. However, as the trend toward the commoditization
of personal computers took hold, the company stopped retailing personal
computers in shops. It dramatically shifted course to Internet sales and
cultivating corporate demand for services. The company’s successful experiences from this time and the expertise it
amassed has formed the basis for the company’s current EC solutions business. Another major thread in the
company’s history is the systems integration (SI)
business. The company began developing its own software alongside the operation
of personal computer shops. In 1985, it launched services to develop computer
systems on a consigned basis. In the process, the company also strengthened its
software programs developed in-house, a business that continues to this day. In 2005, the company listed its shares on the Hercules market of
the Osaka Securities Exchange. In 2008, it listed its shares on the Second
Section of the Tokyo Stock Exchange, and in 2011, its shares were listed on the
First Section of the Tokyo Stock Exchange, where they remain listed today.Systems integration business contributes to earnings
growth (2) Outline of Businesses In October 2012, Softcreate
Holdings reorganized as a holding company. Under this framework, the group has
three core operating companies: ecbeing Corp., Softcreate Corp., and Atled Co.,
Ltd. Softcreate Holdings has three
main businesses: (1) the EC solutions business, which provides EC support
services to corporate customers; (2) the systems integration business, which
provides network construction services to corporate customers and sells
software programs developed in-house; and (3) the product sales business, which
procures and sells hardware and software. The EC solutions business is conducted by ecbeing. Services are
offered under the name “ecbeing,” the same name as the company. In the SI business, Softcreate
builds networks and sells proprietary software, while Atled specializes in the
development and sale of work flow software (internal clerical automation and
information sharing systems). In product sales, Softcreate primarily sells
hardware and third-party software in the course of developing the systems
integration business.The following pie graph shows the composition of consolidated
sales and recurring profit for FY3/14. Particularly noteworthy is the high
share of the systems integration business in the profit mix. The core EC
solutions business has also achieved a high recurring profit margin. In
contrast, the product sales business has a low margin and contributes only a
small share of profits as it deals with third-party products (hardware,
software, etc.)◆Description of business and status in the 1H FY3/15 The company commands a top share of the EC website
support industry, while taking a selective approach to customers. (1) EC Solutions Business (A) Description of Business The EC solutions business supports
the e-commerce businesses (i.e., direct sales over the Internet) of corporate
customers. Services are provided by subsidiary ecbeing Corp. under the ecbeing
brand name. The EC solutions business provides a one-stop service primarily for
construction, operating and maintaining EC websites and for supplying marketing
support for these websites. E-commerce is undertaken by an
extremely wide range of business operators, from proprietorships to large
corporations. For this reason, many businesses other than Softcreate Holdings
also provide EC support services. Setting Softcreate Holdings apart is that it
sets the following two criteria for winning customers: The first criterion is that
the corporate customer or product itself must have already established a brand
and a business platform to a certain extent. This means that Softcreate
Holdings does not target companies that specialize only in e-commerce. Based on
past experience, Softcreate Holdings believes that it is crucial for the
company to demonstrate its strengths by integrating its customers’ physical operations and products with e-commerce. The second criterion used by Softcreate Holdings to target
customers is that the corporate customer or product must generate annual
revenues of between \100mn and \10bn. This means that Softcreate Holdings does
not target proprietorships or newly formed startups. Softcreate Holdings must
charge a fairly high fee to provide services that will take full advantage of
its strengths. Therefore, corporate customers must have a business large enough
to afford the services provided by the company. Softcreate Holdings’ typical contractual fee structure consists of an initial EC
website construction cost of around \15mn and a maintenance and support cost of
around \300,000 per month thereafter.There are many competitors in Softcreate Holdings’ core market. The three main competitors are System Integrator
<3826>, S-cubism Inc. <unlisted> and Commerce21 Corp.
<unlisted>. In this competitive landscape, Softcreate Holdings has
maintained the top share of the Japanese market for EC solutions services, with
a customer base of more than 826 companies on a cumulative basis (as of March
31, 2014).(B) Business performance trend
The EC solutions business has continued to experience steady
growth in sales and profits. In terms of sales, the EC solutions business
delivered compound annual sales growth of 17.3% in the five fiscal years from
FY3/10 to FY3/14 and compound annual growth of 13.6% in recurring profit over
the same period. EC system sales (the sum of sales from EC website construction
and recurring sales from maintenance, support and operation) is the primary
source of sales and earnings. However, one notable recent trend has been growth
in Web promotion sales. Web promotion refers to a relatively new business that
the company calls the “digital marketing business.” In essence, it refers to the so-called Internet advertising
business.In 1H FY3/15 (April to September 2014), the EC solutions
business posted steady growth with EC website construction sales of \1,394mn,
up 19.0% year on year, and recurring sales of \896mn, up 5.2%, as a result of
48 new orders received, up 14.3%. Web promotion sales continued to grow rapidly
by 38.4% to \505mn. The cumulative number of Web promotion customers increased
steadily to approximately 70 companies as of September 30, 2014. Consequently,
external sales for the EC solutions business as a whole rose 17.0% year on year
to \2,794mn.The number of EC websites constructed (cumulative), a KPI of the
EC solutions business, was well over 800 as of September 2014, and is expected
to surpass 900 by March 31, 2015. Looking at the yearly trend, the number of
new EC websites constructed per year had remained at around 60 after peaking
out in FY3/07, but has started to pick up pace since FY3/13. We believe that
synergies captured between EC website construction and Web promotion are behind
this trend.(C) Outline of Web Promotion
Business The Web promotion business refers to the so-called Internet
advertising business, and is what the company calls the “digital marketing business.” This business model seeks to provide Internet advertising
services as an additional service to customers of the company’s ecbeing service. Softcreate Holdings entered this business
based on the belief that by entering the Internet advertising field with the
top share of the EC support services market, it can set itself apart from
specialist companies in each of these fields, and generate the synergies needed
to expand business. In other words, the effective use of both data obtained
from EC website operation, and data from Internet advertising will enable the
company to run more effective advertisements or conversely, to modify EC
websites based on analysis of the advertising effects. By engaging in both
fields, the company be able to provide these services more efficiently and
speedily. The company is steadily garnering customer support for services that
integrate EC solutions and Web promotions, and earnings are expanding rapidly
in this field.The Web promotion business is
essentially an advertisement agency business. This business involves the same
kinds of activities as those of specialized Internet advertising agency
businesses, such as procuring and selling advertising space, and providing
managed advertisements and affiliate advertisements. Because Web promotion
staff require a different set of skills than EC solutions staff, the Web
promotion business requires specialized staff. (approx. 50 specialized staff were
in place as of September 30, 2014.) That said, the company plans to gradually
increase staff in line with work volume going forward. Because it is an
advertising agency business, the margins of the Web promotion business are
confined to those of a specialized Internet advertising business. We estimate
the gross margin of the EC solutions business is around 30%. This compares with
a gross margin of around 15-20% for a conventional Internet advertising agency.
We believe the company can fully justify the existence of the Web promotion
business, despite its low profitability, because synergies with the EC
solutions business will lead to tangible benefits such as winning new contracts
and increasing the loyalty of existing customers. Currently, there are virtually
no other companies like Softcreate Holdings, which operates both an EC support
business and an Internet advertising agency business. Estore Corporation
<4304> and System Integrator <3826> are companies that specialize
in the e-commerce support business, while SEPTENI HOLDINGS CO., LTD.
<4293> and OPT, Inc. <2389> specialize in the Internet advertising
agency business. Estore is thought to be pursuing the same direction as the
Softcreate Group by setting out to strengthen its marketing support business.
However, we believe that Estore cannot yet be counted as a competitor of
Softcreate Holdings based on Estore’s
business scale and marketing support techniques (advertising agency
techniques), among other factors. In this context, we believe that transcosmos
inc. <9715> has considerable overlap with Softcreate Holdings, in terms
of its customer base and other aspects. The main business of transcosmos is to
provide sales promotion support mainly by placing outbound calls to e-commerce
users from a call center; it does not provide Internet advertising agency
services. However, in the sense that both companies can be expected to deliver
similar benefits from the standpoint of customers, transcosmos is arguably the
closest to being a competitor of Softcreate Holdings. (D) Softcreate Group’s Strengths in the EC Solutions Business The strengths of Softcreate Holdings, the market share leader in
Japan’s EC solutions industry, are summarized
below.○Fulfilling customer
needs through rigorous customization The company believes the core
value of EC solutions lies in these solutions being able to fulfill a multitude
of customer demands to the fullest extent possible. Based on this belief, the
company fulfills customer needs by customizing basic software. Although this
approach pushes up costs, the company reflects the higher costs in its fees. To
ensure its customers are able to embrace this sort of fee structure, the
company only targets corporate customers that generate annual revenues between
\100mn and \10bn. ○Omni Channel Capability
The company previously sold
personal computers both in shops and over the Internet. Leveraging this
experience and its cumulative customer base of over 800 companies, the company
is able to provide high-level EC solutions in response to the Omni Channel
trend, which facilitates the use of e-commerce via many different channels,
such as PCs and smartphones. ○Marketing Support
Capabilities Marketing support capabilities
refer to the integration of Web promotion and EC solutions. There are
considerable advantages for customers in having a single company provide these
two service elements, which have different business characteristics but common
aims. The existence of the Web promotion business has already started helping
the company to win certain new EC solutions contracts. With this in mind, the
company continues to offer strong prospects for realizing synergistic benefits
at a faster pace. ○Cost competitiveness The company also provides data
center usage services using a third-party data center. Furthermore, it has
entered into a comprehensive agreement with LAC Co., Ltd. <3857> on
ensuring security in connection with the use of this data center. The effective
use of third-party services in this manner allows the company to provide an
environment that facilitates access to highly secure e-commerce at low cost. Maintaining high profits by expanding sales of ready-made
work flow software (2) Systems Integration (SI)
Business (A) Description of Business The company’s SI business can be broadly divided into two areas: the
construction of information networks and the sale of software developed
in-house. The company conducted conventional SI business activities, so to
speak, in the form of consigned development activities through 1H FY3/14
(through September 30, 2013). However, it has now withdrawn from this field. The company’s basic approach to the SI
business is to supply ready-made services and products (software) without using
customized elements. In network construction, the company strictly adheres to
the approach of utilizing proprietary and third-party software without
modification to fulfill customer needs.The main software programs developed
in-house are the X-point and AgileWorks work flow programs developed by
subsidiary Atled Co., Ltd. The X-point program is sold to companies with up to
300 employees, while AgileWorks programs are sold to larger companies with a
greater number of employees. Despite numerous market entrants, the X-point
program commands a top share of about 30% of the market for work flow software
programs. In addition to direct sales by the company, a considerable amount of
sales are generated via major systems integrators, which incorporate the
company’s products into business application
software in the course of constructing systems. In this manner, the SI
business has thoroughly removed customized elements from its business model. As
a result, this business is characterized by an extremely high gross profit
margin of between 40% and 50%. This is also true for both network construction
and proprietary software sales. (B) Business Performance Trend
It is difficult to describe the SI business as a so-called
growth business, as it is susceptible to the impact of economic fluctuations.
However, because Softcreate Holdings’
business model specializes in ready-made products and services, the SI business
is notable for its high profit margins and its high contribution to profit.
Looking at trends in recurring profit by business segment over the past few
years, the SI business has consistently achieved a recurring profit margin of
over 30%.In 1H FY3/15 (April to September 2014), external sales for the
SI business as a whole rose 5.7% year on year to \1,185mn. These sales break
down into network construction sales of \719mn, up 28.4% year on year, and
product (proprietary software) sales of \467mn, down 6.8% year on year. Sales
trended largely in line with the company’s business plan. Notably, sales of the company’s L2Blocker security software were strong in 2Q FY3/15 (July to
September 2014), due to major customer data leak incidents at numerous
companies. L2Blocker has a function that prevents PCs brought into a company
from the outside from connecting to networks.Targeting Stable Growth Through Product Sales (3) Product Sales Business The product sales business
consists of the sale of PCs, peripheral equipment and third-party software
products. These sales are incidental to orders for network construction
projects in the SI business. Replacement demand for both hardware and software
is expected to emerge in step with an increase in the number of customers of
the Softcreate Holdings Group as a whole. For this reason, the product sales
business is expected to grow moderately over the medium term. That said, the
sale of third-party products means that profitability is lower than in other
business segments. In 1H FY3/15 (April to September 2014), product sales were \1,830mn,
down 0.8% year on year. The impact of the consumption tax hike was a concern,
but it did not have any impact due to solid growth in new orders in the SI
business. 報告內容僅供參考，不得作為任何投資引用之唯一依據，且其投資風險及決定應由投資人自行判斷並自負損益。