BEENOSInc.(JP-3328)TSEMothersGrowthacceleratingduetotherapidexpansionofe-commercebusinesses
  2015-05-18 提供機構：FISCO 作者：FISCO 點閱次數：12   

BEENOS, Inc. (3328) engages in
various electronic commerce (e-commerce) and incubation businesses. There are
three main e-commerce businesses: the cross-border business (acting as a proxy
to help customers purchase goods in Japan, forwarding of goods to residents of
other countries, and operating a global Internet shopping site), the value
cycle business (trading used designer goods via the Internet), and the
retailing and licensing business (the planning and promotion of licensed goods
and Internet shopping). In particular, the proxy purchasing and forwarding
business has seen rapid growth lately, due to the depreciation of the Japanese
yen. On April 23, 2015, the company
announced its consolidated results for the first half of the current fiscal
year, ending in September 2015, i.e., for H1 FY9/15. Sales grew 38.5% year on
year (YoY) to \8,247mn, and the company earned an operating profit of \747mn, which
is a significant improvement compared to an operating loss of \154mn in H1
FY9/14. This sales growth and turnaround in profitability were attributable
mainly to the sale of shares of an overseas company invested in by the
incubation business in Q1. However, the e-commerce businesses has also done
well, increasing their aggregate operating profit by 23.6 times YoY to \471mn.
The value of transactions undertaken by the e-commerce businesses grew 56.6%
YoY to \17,609mn, led by a doubling of the transaction value in proxy
purchasing of goods in Japan and forwarding of goods to residents of other
countries. For FY9/15, management raised
its forecasts a second time. It now foresees a 38.1% YoY rise in consolidated
sales to \17.4bn and an operating profit of \800mn. It anticipates a 50% YoY
increase in transaction value in the e-commerce businesses to \36bn, which is
\1bn higher than it had originally forecasted. The proxy purchasing of goods in
Japan and forwarding of goods to residents of other countries are seen as the
growth drivers. In H2, the company plans to spend heavily to promote its
cross-border and value cycle businesses to ensure the top position in these
businesses in Japan. This spending is likely to result in a temporary YoY
decline in operating profit in the e-commerce businesses, but the decline will
be partially offset by a \396mn profit recorded in Q3 from the sale of shares
in a company invested in by the incubation business. The e-commerce businesses are likely to record \50bn of
transactions in FY9/16, and we believe that these businesses will start
contributing to significant profit growth in the next fiscal year, as the
company reduces its spending on promotions. The proxy purchasing of goods in
Japan and forwarding of goods to residents of other countries is expected to
continue to expand at a rapid pace, and the value cycle business should see
increasing demand overseas as a result of working with eBay Inc.. In the
incubation business domain, the company has practically finished investing in
promising e-commerce businesses, mainly in emerging countries in Asia.
Hereafter, it plans to nurture these businesses toward growth. As the home
countries of these companies develop economically over the medium term, synergy
between the invested companies and BEENOS’s main businesses is likely to emerge, adding fuel to growth at
BEENOS.◆Description of
Businesses E-commerce as the main
businesses BEENOS Inc.’s undertakings can be broadly divided into e-commerce and
incubation businesses. There are three main e-commerce businesses conducted by
consolidated subsidiaries: the cross-border business (acting as a proxy to help
customers purchase goods in Japan, forwarding goods to residents of other
countries, and operating a global Internet shopping site), the value cycle
business (trading used designer goods via the Internet), and the retailing and
licensing business (the planning and promotion of licensed goods and Internet
shopping). The incubation businesses include new businesses developed in house
and the business of investing in and nurturing Internet ventures in Japan and
abroad. These businesses are described in greater detail below. ○Cross-Border Business The cross-border business is
conducted by two consolidated subsidiaries, tenso, inc. and Shop Airlines, Ltd.
tesco, inc. operates two websites, tesco.com and Buyee.jp. tenso, inc. serves
as a purchasing proxy and a proxy for forwarding goods purchased through an
e-commerce site in Japan to buyers living overseas. Shop Airlines, Ltd.
operates the “sekaimon” global online shopping site. The sales of both subsidiaries are
commissions based on their transaction value. tenso, inc. serves residents of foreign countries, including
Japanese people. When customers purchase an item on an e-commerce site in
Japan, and the operator of the site does not ship goods overseas, tenso.inc.
will ship the goods for a fee. tenso, inc. forwards goods overseas using the
Japan Post’s Express Mail Service (EMS), regular
airmail, the Japan Post’s Surface Air Lifted (SAL)
economy airmail service, and surface mail for a fee starting as low as \50
(depending on total weight of the shipment), the lowest fee in the e-commerce
forwarding industry.The Buyee.jp site serves as a
proxy for the purchase of online goods in Japan and for bidding for goods
auctioned in Japan. Customers using the Buyee.jp site can pay for their
purchases using widely accepted payment methods, such as PayPal and Alipay. The
Buyee service translates descriptions of goods into languages other than
Japanese and has seen a steady increase in transaction value recently. The
service charges a fee of 10% of the transaction value. tenso, inc. forwards goods to 84 countries, provides customer
support in five languages, have business partnership agreements with more than
550 e-commerce sites in Japan, and is the top forwarder of goods from Japan to
other countries in terms of the number of goods handled.sekaimon is the Japanese language compatible auction site
authorized by eBay Inc., the largest auction site in the world. It offers goods
listed in the US, the UK, Germany, and Austria and charges a fee of 15% of the
auction price or, for lower auction prices, a fixed fee of \500.○Value Cycle Business Consolidated subsidiary
Defactostandard Ltd. buys and sells used designer goods through its own
Brandear auction site and through affiliated auction sites. It is the largest
online auction trader in Japan. In this business model, the Brandear site
purchases used goods through commercial home delivery services and sells these
goods through Japanese and overseas Internet auction sites. The company’s strategy for increasing the number of purchases is to
establish many channels for purchases. Affiliated auction sites for purchases
include the Yamada purchase site operated by Yamada Denki Co. (9831), the
Yahoo! purchase site operated by Yahoo! Japan (4689), and sites operated by
various cooperative associations. Defactostandard purchases about
6,000 brands of items ranging from designer clothing to designer handbags,
precious metals, and cell phones. Having developed its own system for
appraising goods quickly and accurately, the company excels at purchasing and
appraising. Defactostandard sells goods
through its Brandear site, through affiliated auction sites in Japan, such as
Yahoo! Auctions and Rakuten Auction, and through overseas auction sites, such
as eBay. All goods are simultaneously offered through all of the auction sites,
and the company’s system automatically awards the sale to
the highest bidder. Yahoo! Auctions is the largest auction site in Japan. In
2014, the number of goods that Defactostandard sold through this site increased
by 158% YoY, and Yahoo! Auctions named Defactostandard its “Annual Best Store” for the sixth straight year.
Defactostandard is Japan’s largest company in terms of
e-commerce sales of pre-owned goods. ○Retailing and Licensing
Business The retailing and licensing
business produces and licenses goods and offers Internet shopping. Subsidiary monosense, Ltd.
provides a one-stop service for the licensing of rights to produce goods
endorsed by celebrities and other well-known public figures, the planning and
development of such goods, the sales of these goods through e-commerce sites,
the promotion of their sales, and the management of licensing them. It sells
official goods at events where licensed popular groups appear and manages their
sale through public e-commerce sites. Its sales derive from sales commissions. Consolidated subsidiary
netprice, Ltd. operates the netprice Internet shopping site, which sells
distinctive goods, such as 24-hour sale goods, original goods developed with
producers, and goods jointly planned and developed with celebrities and other
well-known public figures. The netprice Internet shopping site has more than
2.4 million cumulative registered users. Women make up about 70% of the
netprice online shopping site membership, and people in their 30’s and 40’s comprise almost 70% of the
membership. In July 2014, the company stopped offering its service through
feature phones, for which demand has been declining in Japan, and reorganized
its smartphone-based platform. ○Incubation Businesses The two incubation businesses
are investing in and nurturing Internet venture businesses in Japan and
overseas, and developing new businesses in-house before they turn profitable. Subsidiary BEENOS Asia Pte., headquartered in Singapore, invests
in Internet venture businesses in countries that show the potential to develop
as rapidly as China has, taking stakes of up to 20%. It has invested in
companies offering Internet platforms, such as online settlement services and
online marketplaces, in Indonesia, India, Turkey, the Philippines, Vietnam,
Malaysia, and Africa. To nurture these companies, BEENOS Asia Pte. encourages
the exchange of personnel and technologies among them.BEENOS Partners Inc., based in Japan, invests mainly in US
startup companies engaged in Internet businesses, usually taking stakes of less
than 1%. Through these investments, BEENOS gains information about the latest
Internet services and technologies. It applies this information to establish
new businesses in Japan and overseas, and it eventually realize capital gains
on its investments. This company also invests in startup companies engaged in
Internet businesses in Japan.◆Business Trends Sales and profits increased
notably due to strong growth of main businesses （1） H1 FY9/15 Results On April 23, 2015, BEENOS announced its consolidated results for
H1 FY9/15. As detailed in the table below, sales increased by 38.5% YoY to
\8,247mn and the company earned an operating profit of \747mn, after an
operating loss of \154mn in H1 FY9/14, a recurring profit of \735mn, after a
recurring loss of \134mn in H1 FY9/14, and a net profit of \609mn, after a net
loss of \118mn a year earlier.In Q1 FY9/15 (Oct.-Dec. 2014),
the investment and nurturing incubation business earned a profit of US$3.9mn on
the sale of shares of an invested company overseas. This sale contributed
substantially to the sales and profit growth achieved in H1 FY9/15. However,
the e-commerce businesses also increased their aggregate sales by 32.1% YoY to
\7,690mn in H1 and their aggregate operating profit by 23.6 times YoY to
\471mn. Sales and profits from proxy purchasing of goods in Japan for overseas
customers and forwarding of goods purchased in Japan to overseas customers grew
strongly, supported by yen depreciation. Trading in used designer goods
prospered, and the Internet shopping business, which had consistently been
unprofitable, turned profitable. Thus, the profitability of every business
except global shopping improved. The value of transactions undertaken by the
e-commerce businesses grew 56.6% YoY to \17,609mn, a faster rate of growth than
the company had initially projected. BEENOS recorded a consolidated extraordinary gain of \226mn
stemming from the allocation of new shares by Defactostandard to ITOCHU Corp.
(8001). This allocation was equivalent to 10.8% of Defactostandard’s total shares outstanding. BEENOS claimed an extraordinary loss
of \147mn stemming from asset impairment losses in the global shopping
business.The cross-border and value
cycle businesses achieved record-high quarterly sales in Q2 FY9/15 (2) H1 FY9/15 Segment Results Results by segment are as
follows. ○Cross-border Business In the cross-border business, sales grew 71.8% YoY to \772mn in
Q2 FY9/15 (Jan.-Mar. 2015), operating profit increased 202.5% to \111mn, and
transaction value advanced 53.5% to \5,105mn. Compared to Q1 figures, sales
rose 17.7% and operating profit climbed 37.1%, both hitting record highs for a
quarter.Q2 growth was led by the businesses of proxy purchasing goods in
Japan for overseas customers and forwarding goods purchased in Japan to
overseas customers. Supported by yen depreciation, the transaction value of
these businesses more than doubled YoY for customers in China and other East
Asian countries, and their total transaction value increased 90.8% YoY to just
over \4bn in Q2. This growth was reinforced by service improvements implemented
in January 2015. tenso, inc. lowered its fees for these services and
diversified its delivery services to include regular airmail, the Japan Post’s Surface Air Lifted (SAL) economy airmail service, and surface
mail, as well as the Japan Post’s Express Mail Service (EMS).
Furthermore, the number of registrants for the tenso.com service increased to
550,000 at the end of March 2015 from 470,000 at the end of December 2014.Results of the business of proxy purchasing goods in Japan and
overseas forwarding of goodstenso, inc.’s transaction value declined by 1.5% quarter-on-quarter (QoQ) in
Q2 FY9/15 because it handled a large number of high-priced electrical
appliances in Q1. However, the number of goods it handled increased by 17.9%
QoQ in Q2, supporting double-digit QoQ growth of sales and operating profit. Meanwhile, the global shopping
business (from overseas to Japan) saw its business decline in Q2 FY9/15, due
mainly to yen depreciation. Its transaction value fell 12.4% YoY in Q2 to
\1,050mn. Compared with Q1, its transaction value decreased 4.9%, its sales
dropped 4.8%, and its operating loss remained basically unchanged. ○Value Cycle Business In Q2 FY9/15, sales in the value cycle business grew 35.5% YoY
to \2,154mn while operating profit declined 4.4% YoY to \126mn. Purchases and
sales increased YoY, reflecting an increase in public recognition of the
business due to effective advertising through TV commercials. Sales reached a
record high for a quarter in Q2.○Retailing and Licensing
Business In the retailing and licensing
business, sales decreased 5.3% YoY in Q2 FY9/15 to \1,068mn, but the business
earned an operating profit of \49mn, reversing an operating loss of \29mn in Q2
FY9/14. Compared with Q1, sales rose 0.5% but operating profit fell 11.6%. In the goods producing and
licensing business, sales and operating profit increased YoY in Q2 FY9/15.
Sales of goods advanced, reflecting sales through two public e-commerce sites
operated by the business for five groups of popular entertainers. The business
also expanded the number of types of goods handled, which contributed to
growth. Sales in the Internet retailing business fell YoY in Q2 FY9/15
because the company stopped sales through feature phones in June 2014 (sales
through feature phones accounted for about 16% of total sales in FY9/13).
However, this business reported an operating profit in Q2 for two consecutive
quarters, showing improved profitability. By concentrating its system platform
on smartphones, the business has cut costs, and by strengthening its sales of
original goods, it has improved its gross profit margin. Compared with Q1,
sales and operating profit were basically unchanged in Q2.○Incubation Businesses In Q2 FY9/15, the incubation businesses reported sales of \49mn
and operating profit of \18mn. Both figures were lower than corresponding
results in Q1 because the investment and nurturing business increased its sales
and profit dramatically by selling shares of Tokopedia in Q1, whereas in Q2, it
sold only a few shares in Japanese venture companies.At the end of March 2015, BEENOS’s operational investment in securities amounted to \1,711mn, which
was \54mn more than its investment at the end of December 2014. As detailed in
the table below, BEENOS has invested in four companies since October 2014. In
Q2 FY9/15, it invested in Paynamics Technologies, of the Philippines, which
offers an online settlement service. Companies invested in earlier, such as
Tokopedia and ShopClues, continue to grow strongly, and their enterprise values
are probably several times what they were when the investments were initially
made.Forecasts have been raised
again （3） Company Forecasts
for FY9/15 For FY9/15, the company
forecasts consolidated sales of \17.4bn, up 38.1% YoY; an operating profit of
\800mn; a ordinary profit of \770mn; and a net profit of \550mn. These
forecasts are higher than the company’s
first upgraded projections released in February. The company raised its forecasts again because in April its
incubation business sold shares in an invested company overseas for US$3.7mn
(about \431mn), earning a profit of US$3.4mn (about \396mn). Despite the latest
upward revision of forecasts, the company foresees smaller profits in H2 than
in H1, as detailed in the table below. There are several reasons for this
projection. Most notably, the company plans to spend at least \400mn more on
sales promotions in H2 than it did in H1 in order to maintain its dominance of
Japan’s cross-border and value cycle
industries. It also plans to spend \60mn more than originally planned to make
new in-house businesses operational, and it will allocate about \80mn to a
reserve for the revaluation of some investments in other companies.As mentioned earlier, the
three e-commerce businesses have been growing faster than the company had
foreseen, and the company now expects these businesses to transact \36bn of
transactions in FY9/15, which is \1bn more than its original projection. Thus,
these businesses are likely to continue to expand rapidly in H2 FY9/15.
Moreover, the increase in costs to promote these businesses will be limited to
the current fiscal year. These costs will decline in future years, contributing
to faster profit growth. The company’s
FY9/15 projections for its businesses are detailed below. ○Cross-border Business The company projects that the
transaction value of its cross-border business grows 65% YoY to \21bn and sales
by this business advance 76% YoY to \3.2bn in FY9/15. The transaction value and
sales by the proxy purchasing and goods forwarding operations are seen at least
doubling, preserving the company’s large lead in the Japanese
industry. In H2, the company plans to further diversify its avenues for
overseas forwarding goods purchased in Japan. It also intends to start a
service enabling payment in different currencies. These service upgrades are
expected to increase the rate of growth of transaction value. In March 2015, BEENOS started a new service in conjunction with
the established discount store company Takeya to obtain more e-commerce
business from foreign visitors to Japan, whose numbers have been growing
yearly. The Buyee.jp site has set up a Takeya Store page. When foreigners visit
a Takeya store, they receive a flyer that instructs them how to use the Takeya
Store page to encourage them to purchase goods after returning to their home
countries. About 430,000 foreigners visit Takeya stores each year. Since this
figure is as high as those who register with tenso.com, they are expected to
contribute to an increase in transaction value hereafter.Also in March, the company
simplified the sekaimon global shopping site to attract more casual users. On
this site, prices used to be displayed in US dollars and in yen. Now, they
appear only in yen. Costs used to be broken down in detail, showing service
fees, forwarding costs, insurance costs, etc. Now, only the cost of the good
and the forwarding cost are shown. In H2, the company will enhance its
promotion of the sekaimon site, and it is internalizing its warehousing
operations in the US for global shopping, thereby improving service and
lowering costs. Through these efforts, the company aims to turn its global
shopping business profitable. ○Value Cycle Business BEENOS management projects a
41% YoY rise in sales to \9bn for its value cycle business in FY9/15. In H2, it
plans to spend a significant amount on TV commercials to promote this business
and to increase its purchases of pre-owned designer goods, including
high-priced goods. Regarding the overseas sales channels in the latter part of
April, it started selling a large quantity of goods through eBay’s global auction site. It had been selling some goods through
this site, but this process had been too labor intensive to allow meaningful
sales. Now, the process has been automated and the company can sell about 10
times the number of items it used to through eBay’s global auction site. Yen depreciation has lowered the cost of
Japanese goods when paid for in other currencies. The company aims to capture
growing foreign demand for pre-owned brand goods in Japan. Greater overseas
sales are expected to reduce the seasonality of the business and increase its
rate of profit growth. In February 2015,
Defactostandard, the subsidiary that operates the value cycle business,
concluded an equity and business agreement with ITOCHU Corp. The subsidiary
hopes to use ITOCHU Corp.’s global network to increase
the number of companies overseas through which to sell its goods. It also aims
to use ITOCHU Corp.’s business platforms and
know-how to develop new businesses. ○Retailing and Licensing
Business In the retailing and licensing
business, the company forecasts a 24% YoY rise in transaction value to \6bn but
a slight YoY decline in sales to \4.2bn for FY9/15. It foresees a YoY drop in
sales by the shopping business, due to the cessation of sales through feature
phones. However, it expects this business to remain profitable. In the goods
production and licensing business, sales of goods licensed from popular artists
continue to grow briskly, and the business plans to improve its development of
goods based on the popular ECONECO illustrations, for which it holds the master
license, and to promote overseas sales. ○Incubation Businesses The investment and nurturing business does not plan to sell more
shares of its overseas investments than it has already announced. Therefore,
the company forecasts sales of \1bn and operating profit of \570mn for its
incubation businesses in FY9/15.◆Growth Strategy and
Shareholder Return Policy Aims for transaction value of
\50bn in FY9/16 (1) Growth Strategy BEENOS plans to promote the continued rapid growth of its
e-commerce businesses, centering on its cross-border and value cycle
businesses. It targets a transaction value of \50bn for FY9/16, up from \36bn
forecast for FY9/15.○Cross-border Business The number of foreign visitors
to Japan has increased as the yen has depreciated. This has benefited tenso,
inc., which proxy purchases goods in Japan for residents of other countries and
forwards goods purchased in Japan to such residents. Japan’s Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry estimates the value of
cross-border e-commerce between Japan, the US, and China at \1.7 trillion in
the fiscal year through March 2014, up from an estimated \300bn in the previous
fiscal year, and projects that this value grows to \4.1 trillion in the fiscal
year through March 2021. This forecast indicates high growth potential for
BEENOS because it dominates Japan’s industry for proxy
purchasing goods for residents of other countries and forwarding goods
purchased in Japan to such residents. Although competitors exist, BEENOS is ahead of them by offering
far superior services. It has concluded business agreements with more than 550
e-commerce sites in Japan, built a broad purchasing and sales network, offers
diverse channels for forwarding goods overseas, charges low fees, transacts
business in several languages, and has established support facilities overseas.
Thus, it is likely to remain Japan’s
top provider of cross-border services, to lead the growth of the market for
these services, and to expand its sales and profits.○Value Cycle Business Komehyo Co., Ltd. (2780) is
Japan’s leading trader of pre-owned designer
goods through physical stores with sales of \37.3bn in FY3/15. This figure is
the immediate sales goal for BEENOS’s
value cycle business. The acquisition of goods for
sale is the most important step in expanding the business of trading pre-owned
goods. Therefore, BEENOS plans to increase its sources of these goods by
concluding more ties with other businesses. It will also continue to raise the
public awareness of its service through TV commercials. The company should be able to
exploit overseas demand for pre-owned brand goods in Japan, thereby
accelerating its sales growth. Even if the company does not spend heavily on
advertising and promoting sales in this business, the business should generate
an operating profit margin of about 10%, enabling it to lead the company’s profit growth over the medium term. ○Incubation Businesses Since 2012, the investment and
nurturing business has invested aggressively in venture firms engaged in
Internet businesses in Asian countries, which have the potential to grow as
fast as China has in recent decades. Most of the companies invested in are
engaged in services related to Internet marketplaces and online settlement
services. The business has completed most of the investments planned in main
target countries and will now concentrate on nurturing the invested companies. It
will encourage the periodic exchange of personnel and information among the
invested companies and otherwise support their growth. There are two purposes of
these investments, earning capital gains and developing synergy between the
invested companies and BEENOS’s e-commerce businesses. The
attainment of these goals depends on the economic growth of the invested
countries and the pace of diffusion of Internet services in them. Assuming that
the invested countries grow comparably to China’s growth in recent decades, the e-commerce markets in these
countries are likely to expand strongly in the medium term, and the synergy
between the invested companies and BEENOS should accelerate the growth of
BEENOS. Plans to pay a dividend when
profits allow while taking into consideration sales growth and need for funds (2) Shareholder Return Policy BEENOS has not paid a dividend yet because it has concentrated
on business investment and building financial strength. However, management is
amenable to paying a dividend if the company’s profits reach a level where the company can function
effectively and still pay a dividend. In determining the company’s ability to function effectively, management would consider
such factors as sales growth, the company’s operating environment, and its need for funds. Dividends for
FY9/15 have not been decided at this stage. 報告內容僅供參考，不得作為任何投資引用之唯一依據，且其投資風險及決定應由投資人自行判斷並自負損益。