ChiomeBioscienceInc.(JP-4583)TSEMothersSucceededingeneratingantibodiesfortheEbolavirusandisacceleratingdevelopmentinthefieldof“pandemiccontagiousdiseases”
  2015-01-20 提供機構：FISCO 作者：FISCO 點閱次數：25   

Chiome Bioscience Inc.
<4583> (subsequently, “the company”) is a biotechnology company that discovers antibodies for
medical applications using a proprietary technology discovered by RIKEN. It
also supports the research and development of such antibodies by other
entities. This technology, called the ADLib® (Autonomously
Diversifying Library) system, has three distinct features: 1) it can generate
antibodies for a wider range of antigens than most conventional methods, 2) it
generates antibodies faster than other methods, and 3) it can be applied to
tough antigens for which it is tough to generate antibodies by other methods. The company had been aiming
for the practical use of its fully human ADLib® system
to generate antibodies for pandemic contagious diseases by 2018, but recently
has decided to accelerate this development. The background to this decision is
the increased interest in this technology, particularly in the United States,
based on the spread of the Ebola virus contagion and the greater threat posed
by bioterrorism. In October 2014 the company announced that it had actually
used the ADLib® system to generate antibodies for
multiple influenza viruses in a short time period, and followed this with an
announcement in December that it had succeeded in generating antibodies for the
Ebola virus. In order to accelerate development
in the field of “pandemic contagious diseases,” the company announced on November 20 that it would raise funds
through equity financing. This current round of financing will raise
approximately ¥2,000 million, which it plans to allocate
to various costs in the period up to 2017, including for R&D costs for “pandemic contagious diseases” and the costs to acquire peripheral technologies and to
strengthen personnel. On October 30, 2014, the
company announced that it had revised its FY12/14 consolidated results. It now
forecasts sales ¥65 million less than the
initial forecast, of ¥277 million, and an operating
loss reduced by ¥135 million, to ¥907 million. The main reasons for the revisions are that it has
reviewed the order of priorities for its R&D activities and now plans to
concentrate its management resources following the progress made in the joint
research project between its subsidiary LivTech, Inc., and Yakult Honsha Co.,
Ltd. <2267>. The status of the fully human ADLib® system
is that the company is currently at the stage of receiving inquiries from other
companies, including from major pharmaceutical companies in Japan and overseas.
Going forward, while continuing to further improve its technologies for
acquiring antibodies, it is aiming to construct the ultimate system for
generating human antibodies. The plan is to conclude technology licenses in
FY12/16 and primarily for this reason, for its consolidated results in FY12/16
it is targeting sales of ¥3,452 million and operating
income of ¥651 million, bringing operations out of
the red for the first time.◆Accelerating developments for pandemic contagious diseases Raised
funds of ¥2,000 million, which is being allocated
as a priority to R&D The company’s medium-term management vision has been to develop antibodies
for pandemic contagious diseases by 2018. But upon reaching its current point,
it has decided to push forward this schedule and strengthening its efforts in
this area. The background to this
includes the rapid increase in social anxiety in Europe and the United States
due to the spread of the Ebola virus contagion and also the rising threat posed
by bioterrorism, which has caused interest in the company’s ADLib® system to grow, particularly in the
United States. This is because the features of the ADLib® system,
which are that it can generate antibodies for a wider range of antigens than
most conventional methods, it generates antibodies faster than other methods,
and it can be applied to tough antigens for which it is tough to generate
antibodies by conventional methods, are being highly evaluated. In conjunction with these
market trends, in October 2014 the company announced that it had used its
original ADLib® system to generate in a short period of
time antibodies that showed responsiveness to the antigens of multiple
influenza viruses (the weakly virulent type and the strongly virulent type).
Then in December, it announced that it had succeeded in a short period in
generating antibodies for the Ebola virus. It intends to positively press ahead
with R&D for therapeutic antibodies for a treatment for the Ebola virus,
and in the future plans to continue with further R&D on physical
properties, functionality, and efficacy, including by generating a variety of
antibodies. These achievements signify that the ADLib® system
can generate in a short period of time antibodies that possess efficacy against
a variety of viruses. The company does not disclose specific data on its patent
strategy, but going forward, as it plans to report its research results through
overseas biotechnology conferences and academic societies, it seems likely that
interest in the business potential for its ADLib® system
for developing antibodies for contagious diseases will rapidly increase.Based on this sort of situation, the company has decided to
further strengthen and accelerate its R&D for contagious diseases compared
to that anticipated in its previous medium-term plan, and it announced that it
would be newly raising funds (November 20, 2014). Specifically, in addition to
the issue of 1.44 million new shares through a public offering at the beginning
of December 2014, it sold 216,000 shares as an over-allotment (share dilution
rate of approximately 8.1%). It expects to raise around ¥2,000 million through the current round of financing. The table
below shows for what specific purposes it will use these funds and over what
time periods.So in terms of how the funds
will be used, the fully human ADLib® system will provide the
technological foundation and the funds are expected to be used for the costs of
acquiring the peripheral technologies that are needed to advance the
development of therapeutic antibodies for contagious diseases, for the costs of
acquiring licenses from targets and others, to pay for capital investment for
new facilities at domestic research facilities, and to increase the number of
researchers. It is also thought that M&As are one option available to the
company as a means of acquiring technologies. The plan is to spend around ¥1,200 million over three years until December 2017 on R&D
costs for contagious diseases. The subsidiary LivTech will carry out the animal
tests for the physical-properties tests and drug-efficacy tests for its lead
antibody candidates. The company also plans to use external resources. In terms
of its joint research with overseas research facilities, the company has
already concluded a joint research partnership agreement with the U.S.
nonprofit organization the Clayton Medical Research Foundation (subsequently,
Clayton; Q1 FY12/14). Clayton provides planning for R&D projects in the
biotechnology field and plays the role of the coordinator connecting
universities with biotechnology companies for each project. The company has
already started a joint research project with Clayton as the coordinator. It is
not known whether this project is in the area of contagious diseases, but in
the future it seems highly likely that it will use Clayton to advance joint
research with universities in the area of contagious diseases.◆Business trends 2Q was roughly in line with company forecasts (1) 1H FY12/14 Results On November 14, 2014, the company announced its consolidated
results for 1H FY12/14 (April to September) reporting sales of ¥158 million, an operating loss of ¥581 million, an ordinary loss of ¥582 million, and a net loss of ¥557 million. Sales were roughly unchanged year-on-year (y-o-y)
with the increase in R&D costs corresponding to the rise in the operating
loss, and the results were roughly in line with company forecasts.Trends according to business segment were as follows.○Drug discovery alliance
business In 1H FY12/14 (April to
September), sales were ¥72 million (compared to ¥70 million in the previous fiscal half year) and segment income
was ¥45 million (42 ¥million). Sales to the Chugai Pharmaceutical Group <4519>
declined y-o-y, but R&D activities are going ahead steadily and the
progress being made is in line with the plan. Also, the subsidiary LivTech
carried out part of the development for the generation of antibodies and
pre-clinical trials for LIV-2008*1,
which is an antibody medicine indicated for cancer that it is jointly
researching with Yakult Honsha. In October, it was announced that LivTech had
succeeded in reaching the development milestone for LIV-2008 and so expected to
record milestone income as sales in the October-December 2014 fiscal period
(the amount is negligible so undisclosed). The progress made in the development
of this antibody indicated for cancer is thought to mainly be in confirming efficacy
above a certain numerical value in animal trials. ○Lead antibody licensing
business The lead antibody licensing
business does not currently record sales as it is at the stage of progressing
research into various antibodies in the development pipeline. Among them,
anti-semaphorin 3A is the company’s first lead antibody
candidate and it is advancing joint research with Professor Goshima’s laboratory in Yokohama City University. They have started drug
efficacy tests using an animal model for human diseases toward an inflammatory
diseases model (sepsis and DIC model) and indications in the area of oncology.
Also, in the R&D project to develop an antibody indicated for cancer
research with Biotecnol, which is a technology alliance partner, during 1H
FY12/14 (April to September) it was advanced by one stage, from generating
antibodies to verifying functions. In addition, during Q2 FY12/14
the company started joint research toward generating new antibodies with the
laboratory of Professor Uemura in Nagoya City University and the laboratory of
Professor Takei in Yokohama City University. The laboratory of Professor Uemura
in Nagoya City University specializes in ophthalmology and because neurophilin,
which is a receptor for the anti-semaphorin 3A antibodies, functions to
suppress vascularization*2,
they are thought to be pursuing research toward its indication for conditions
like age-related macular degeneration and diabetic retinopathy. On the other
hand, the laboratory of Professor Takei in Yokohama City University specializes
in the central nervous system and so their joint research is expected to be in
this area. It is hoped that both projects will produce development pipeline
drugs in the future. ○Licensing out platform
technology business In 1H FY12/14 (April to September), sales were ¥7 million and segment income was ¥7 million, which is roughly the same as in the previous fiscal
half year. In December 2013, the European subsidiary of Fujirebio Inc., which
is the company’s original ADLib® system
licensee, launched a diagnostic kit that included an antibody from the ADLib® system
for measuring vitamin D (used for diagnosing rachitic patients), and the
company is recording royalty income based on its sales and also the annual
license fees for the ADLib® system. In addition, it is conducting
technology assessment tests and negotiating technology license schemes with
companies from Japan and overseas that have expressed an interest in licensing
its technology.○R&D Conditions The fully human ADLib® system
is now at a level where it can be practically used. But the company intends to
focus on further finalizing this technology toward licensing it to
pharmaceutical companies, and so currently it is continuing to improve its
level of diversification and expanding its library. Also, since the
announcement in March 2014 that the fully human ADLib® system
had reached the level where it could be practically used for generating
antibodies, the company has received a number of inquiries from pharmaceutical
companies, including so-called ‘mega pharmas’ within Japan and overseas. In addition, since September it has
been giving presentation overseas and so it seems likely that an increasing
number of companies are expressing an interest in it. Going forward, the
company is expected to conclude trial contracts with a number of companies,
which should result in technology licenses (licensing-out platform technology
sales) in FY12/16. Due to the change of fiscal year, the
current fiscal period is 9 months and the extent of the loss will be less than
initially forecast (2) Results forecasts for FY12/14 On October 20, the company announced that it had revised its
forecasts for its consolidated results for FY12/14 (9 months). As shown in the
table, it downwardly revised its sales forecast slightly to ¥277 million, but conversely it is now anticipating a reduced
operating loss of ¥907 million. The main reason
for the revisions was that it reviewed its order of priorities for its R&D
activities and is now aiming to concentrate its allocation of management
resources after it subsidiary LivTech achieving the development milestone for “LIV-2008”. The results for Q4 (October to December 2014), obtained by
subtracting the results up to Q2 from the full-year results were sales of ¥118 million (compared to ¥79 million in the previous quarter) and an operating loss of ¥325 million (¥296 million). The primary
factor behind the increase in sales is thought to be the recording of LivTech’s milestone income as sales. Conversely, the rise in R&D
costs accompanying the expansion of the development pipeline seems to be the
reason for the higher operating loss. The plan is for LivTech to continue to
develop “LIV-2008” toward its licensing-out to Yakult Honsha.◆Medium-term plan Aiming for sales of ¥3,452 million and operating income of ¥651 million in FY12/16, the plan’s final year (1) Outline of the medium-term
plan In May 2014, the company announced its three-year plan ending in
FY12/16 with targets calling for a dramatic improvement in performance bringing
operations out of the red for the first time in FY12/16, as is shown in the
graph. As it has decided to strengthen its development for contagious diseases,
R&D costs may rise above the amount initially assumed from FY12/15, but
there has been no change to its fundamental strategy or direction.For FY12/15, the company
projects that its consolidated sales for the full year will be ¥732 million. In the drug discovery alliance business, it expects
an increase in trial contracts for using the fully human ADLib® system
to contribute to sales, while in the lead antibody licensing business, it plans
to license its anti-semaphorin 3A antibody. In addition, in the licensing out
platform technology business, it anticipates an increase in royalty income from
Fujirebio Inc. In FY12/16, the company
anticipates a surge in sales to ¥3,452 million, which will be
driven by the licensing out platform technology business. It expects a massive
jump in sales from licensing out its platform technology to a number of
Japanese and overseas companies, reflecting the higher maturity of the fully
human ADLib® system. It is thought that the company
will limit the number of companies it concludes licensing agreements with. This
is because the company itself is aiming to primarily be a drug discovery
company that targets the development of lead antibodies. Currently, it is
mainly advancing development projects in the field of oncology, but as was
explained above, going forward it also intends to strengthen its development in
the area of pandemic contagious diseases. In the future, the company is aiming to establish its fully
human ADLib® system as a drug discovery platform that
will enable the discovery of high value-added lead antibodies, and thereby
realize is vision of providing the “ultimate
made to-order medicine” (targeting by 2023).Strengthened financial structure through equity financing
and there are no funding concerns (2) Financial condition The balance of total assets at
the end of September 2014 was down ¥480
million compared to the end of the previous fiscal year, to ¥4,532 million. The main reason was a decline of cash and
deposits of ¥1,769 million due to a rise in operating
expenses. Liabilities declined ¥32 million compared to the end
of the previous fiscal year, to ¥420million, primarily because
the interest-bearing debt balance had become zero. Net assets declined ¥447 million, to ¥4,111 million, mainly due to a
fall in retained earnings. As of the end of September, the company’s total cumulative loss was ¥2,742 million. While the company continues to record a loss, it is
strengthening its financial structure and in the last fiscal year carried out
equity financing that increased its cash and deposits in excess of ¥3,000 million. Further, it plans equity financing in December of
more than ¥2,000 million, further solidifying its
financial foundation. Management indicators of financial stability, such as
equity ratio and interest-bearing debt to asset ratio, are at acceptable
levels, and there seems little cause for concern for its funding up to FY12/16.◆Risks and Return to Shareholders Will not pay a dividend in the near future (1) Risks We see the following three
potential risks to the business of the company. ○Risk of delays in
licensing agreement negotiations and R&D Should there be a delay in licensing agreement negotiations with
client candidates or should rupture of the agreement occur, there is the risk
that these events could impact on the company’s performance. Also, should the licensing of lead antibodies not
progress as expected due to delays in R&D, or should the development be
abandoned because of the results of assessments of drug efficacy or safety
tests during the course of the drug development, which may arise at any time,
there is the risk that these events could impact on the company’s performance in the future.○Superior technologies
could be developed If a technology far superior
to the ADLib® system for producing antibodies or other
new technologies are developed, this system may not be able to maintain its
competitiveness in the market. ○High dependence on a
single product is potentially dangerous The Chugai Pharmaceutical
group <4519> accounted for 88.9% of the company’s total sales in FY3/14. If the business relationship with the
group deteriorated for some reason, the company’s performance would be severely threatened. On December 24,
2014, the company announced that its contracts with the Chugai Pharmaceutical
Group for joint research and contract research using the ADLib® system
had each been extended. (2) Returns to shareholders As the company still carries cumulative losses, it will not pay
a dividend in the near future. However, after it establishes a basis for stable
profits, its policy is that it will pay dividends that reflect its improved
financial condition and business performance.◆Company Description The ADLib® system can generate broader antibody
diversity than conventional antibody production systems. (1) ADLib® System The ADLib® system, the company’s core technology, was developed by RIKEN as a method for
antibody discovery in 2002. Today, the patent rights to it are shared equally
by the company and RIKEN (50% each). Simply stated, the ADLib® system
promotes DNA recombination (gene conversion) in the antibody locus of DT40
cells, a cultured cell line derived from chickens, to generate the antibody
protein library. Then with magnetic beads the system collects only the cells
that bind to the target antigen. Antigen-specific antibodies can be harvested
by culturing those cells for about a week.Most of the therapeutic monoclonal antibodies now on the market
were discovered by one of two conventional methods; the mouse hybridoma method
or the phage display method. The table below shows the differences between
these existing technologies and the ADLib® system.As for above “Application to tough antigens”, the aim is to use the ADLib® system
to generate antibodies for those for which access by conventional antibody
production methods is tough such as pathogenic toxins or proteins that are
conserved across species by evolutionary mechanisms. Among those tough
antigens, GPCR or G protein-coupled receptors is now the main focus of antibody
development. It is a group of antigens with complicated structure for which it
was tough to generate antibodies. However, several small-molecule medicines against
diseases caused by these molecular group are now on the market (among these are
Gaster to treat peptic ulcers and the antihistamine Claritin). There are
several hundred such antigens for which it is tough to generate an antibody.
The production of therapeutic antibodies for them would expand the market for
antibody drugs substantially. The ADLib® system
has the greatest advantages for this production, compared to conventional
methods. In addition, by utilizing the
intrinsic gene diversification mechanism in DT40 cells or introducing the
artificial arrangement of genes, the ADLib® system
can generate broader antibody diversity than conventional antibody production
systems, and indeed is theoretically capable of limitless diversity. A short development time
before a pharmaceutical is brought to market not only provides patients with a
new drug faster, it will also contribute more to sales. Because patents expire
after 20 years, a shorter period to generate the antibody makes it possible to
reduce the time from discovery to market launch, which is another benefit of
the ADLib® system. The generation of fully human antibodies has been a big
challenge in the past. However, on March 2014, the company announced that it
had completed its technology for producing fully human antibodies and that
opened the way for full-scale commercialized use of human ADLib® system.
The fully human ADLib® system is able to generate human
antibodies as drug candidates by humanizing chicken antibodies by replacing
antibody genes in a DT40 cell line established from chicken lymphocyte with
artificial human genes. As it only lags behind compared to existing methods in
terms of its practical use for generating fully human antibodies, it seems that
this achievement is extremely significant toward the company developing its
business in the future.The drug discovery alliance business currently accounts
for the majority of the company’s revenues 2) Overview of Business
Structure With the ADLib® system as its core technology, the company
manages three types of business.The drug discovery alliance
business generates new antibodies using the ADLib® system,
mainly for therapeutic drugs, in collaboration with pharmaceutical companies
around the world. This business currently accounts for a majority of the
company’s revenue, which consists of upfront
income when a joint R&D contract is concluded, milestone income reflecting
R&D expenses (including personnel expenses) and progress, and royalty
income after a drug is marketed. In this business, in principle the company
retains at least a 50% share of the right to a developed antibody, so it
provides greater added value than conventional consigned or commissioned drug
development. The standard time frame for antibody drug development is 6.5–10 years. This could be broken down into about 1 year of basic
research and discovery, 1–2 years for non-clinical
development, → 3.5–5 years for clinical trials →
1–2 years for review → approval and
marketing. The Chugai Pharmaceutical
Group is the main collaborative research partner for this segment (business
with this group accounted for 88.9% of the company’s total sales in FY3/14). The licensing out platform
technology business is the second pillar, in which the company licenses the
ADLib® system to other companies, which use this
technology to generate antibodies. From this business, it obtains upfront
income when a licensing contract is concluded, annual license fees, milestone
income reflecting the progress in the development of antibodies discovered
using the ADLib® system, and royalty income after a drug
is marketed. This business is highly profitable since the only costs, apart
from the royalties paid to RIKEN are for technology transfer work (for about
one month). Currently, Fujirebio Inc. is
the only licensee of the ADLib® system for the discovery of antibodies
for in-vitro diagnostic agents. In December 2013, Fujirebio commenced sales in
Europe of an in-vitro diagnostic kit that includes an antibody generated by the
ADLib® system. This was the first
commercialization of an antibody made with this system. The third pillar, the lead
antibody licensing business, is the licensing of antibodies that have been
developed by the company in the discovery or pre-clinical stage. These
antibodies are generated using the ADLib® system
for target antigens obtained through joint R&D or business agreements with
universities, public medical institutes and companies with proprietary
technology, such as Biotecnol, Inc.* In the future, this business model will
generate upfront income from licensing agreements, milestone income reflecting
progress in antibody development, and royalty income after a drug is marketed,
supplementing the company’s revenue from the other two
businesses. In this business, the company is collaborating with several
organizations, including Yokohama City University, The University of Tokyo,
National Cancer Center, and Biotecnol, although at the current stage it does
not record sales in it. The ADLib® system
is patented in Japan, the U.S., Europe, and China. The patent rights are shared
equally by the company and RIKEN and it pays royalties to RIKEN. This patent
will expire in Japan, Europe and China in 2023, and in the U.S. in 2025. But
the company has been applying for relevant patents, including the patenting of
the fully human ADLib® system. Thus it should retain competitive
advantage for the ADLib® system even after the existing patent
expires. * The company and Biotecnol
concluded a joint research agreement in February 2013 and they are conducting
R&D into the development and production of high value-added antibody
medicines using Biotecnol’s Tribody™ technology and the
ADLib® System. Their target medicines could not
be generated using other current technologies. The table below shows the main partners in each business and the
purposes of the agreements.Utilizing LivTech’s animal research facility (3) Subsidiary LivTech, Inc. In December 2013, the company
invested about ¥90 million for a 52.9% stake in LivTech,
Inc., making the company a subsidiary. LivTech has been developing antibodies
for cancer stem cell antigens and has two development pipelines. For one
pipeline, it licensed one of these lead antibodies, LIV-2008, to Yakult Honsha
Co., Ltd. in 2011 for joint R&D toward the production of a cancer medicine.
For another, LIV-1205, LivTech is now seeking a pharmaceutical company as a
partner for the development of a medicine based on its other lead antibody. It
owns a facility for animal research and is particularly strong in developing
antibodies up to the clinical trial stage. LivTech generates annual sales of
about ¥100 million but suffers an annual
operating loss of several tens of millions of yen. The company acquired LivTech to obtain its expertise in the
pre-clinical stage development of antibodies and in actual licensing record of
antibodies, and it also gained access to LivTech’s animal facility. By combining LivTech’s expertise with its ADLib® system,
the company will be able to accelerate its development of antibodies to counter
the antigens causing cancer autoimmune diseases, and contagious diseases. 報告內容僅供參考，不得作為任何投資引用之唯一依據，且其投資風險及決定應由投資人自行判斷並自負損益。