TOKAIHoldings(JP-3167)TokyoStockExchangeFirstSectionTOKAIHolding’scumulativeoperatingprofitlargelyexceededitsoriginalforecastinQ2(I)
  2015-01-14 提供機構：FISCO 作者：FISCO 點閱次數：6   

Based in Shizuoka Prefecture,
Japan, TOKAI Holdings Corporation (“TOKAI”) <3167> engages in LP-gas (“LPG”) with a focus on energy and
home services and telecommunications businesses. Under its Total Life Concierge
(“TLC”) concept, the Company launched its new three-year medium-term
management plan, Innovation Plan 2016 “Growing”, in the fiscal year ending March 2015, with the aim of
achieving JPY 209.5 billion in net sales and JPY 12.6 billion in operating
profit in the fiscal year ending March 2017, the final year of the plan. In the second quarter of the
fiscal year ending March 2015 (April 2014-September 2014), TOKAI achieved JPY
87,274 million in net sales, an increase of 3.5% year-on-year (“y-o-y”), and JPY 1,816 million in
operating profit, an increase of 341.7% y-o-y, largely exceeding its original
forecast of JPY 720 million in operating profit. In addition to an increase in
sales due to retail price revisions of LPG, this increase in income was
attributable to a higher-than-anticipated reduction in customer acquisition
cost particularly in its water and telecommunication businesses. The company is expected to
achieve JPY 196,900 million in net sales, a 4.2% increase y-o-y, and JPY 8,870
in operating income, a 20% increase y-o-y. In comparing with its original
forecast, the increase in operating income was smaller than that of the
cumulative result in the second quarter of the fiscal year with an upward
revision to JPY 660 million. This was due to an overall conservative estimate
based on a projected increase in customer acquisition cost caused by
intensifying competition in telecommunications and CATV sectors expected from
NTT <9432>’s launch of wholesale fiber
access services. As a growth strategy, TOKAI will focus on “retaining customers and promoting multiple transactions” and “realizing the TLC by making a
fresh entry in sales of power” in its medium-term management
plan. The company plans to introduce a promotional strategy for service
subscriptions, targeted to those who use its group’s core services, and to increase the return rate of reward
points for when using multiple services, which has been test-marketed since
August. While the subscription rate for multiple services currently accounts
for only 7%, its introduction is expected to be beneficial. The company also
plans to expand its power sales business in Shizuoka and the Kanto region upon
the liberalization in fiscal year 2016, aiming to build an information system,
Home Energy Management System (HEMS), offering high-added value information
including not only electric or LPG usage information, but also information on
regional leisure, shopping and various contents and to realize its TLC concept.◆Business Trends Net sales increased for the fifth consecutive period on
half-year basis, reaching record high (1) Results for the
Second-Quarter Cumulative of the Fiscal Year Ending March 2015 Consolidated results for the second-quarter cumulative of the
fiscal year ending March 2015 (April 2014-September 2014) show that TOKAI
achieved JPY 87,274 million in net sales, a 3.5% increase y-o-y, JPY 1,816
million in operating profit, a 341.7% increase y-o-y, JPY 1,585 million in
recurring profit, a 423.1% increase y-o-y, and JPY 225 million in quarterly net
profit (previous year: JPY 354 million in loss) as released on October 30 2014.
The net sales increased for the fifth consecutive period on a half-year basis,
reaching record high. Although the net sales did not reach the Company’s original forecast, profits largely exceeded the forecast, and
its medium-term management plan initiated in the fiscal year ending March 2015
has shown a good start.Main factors for the increase in revenue are due to price revisions
and streamlining effects in the company’s LPG business as well as reduction in customer acquisition cost
in its broadband and water businesses.The number of customers in the entire group at the end of
September was up to a total of 2,535 thousand, showing a steady increase of 37
thousand y-o-y, attributable to the increase in its broadband and water
businesses. As for TLC membership service, which was introduced in December
2012 for the purpose of retaining customers and increasing the multiple usage
rate, the number of members at the end of September steadily increased to a
total of 356 thousand with a rise of 14% in the proportion of TLC members to
all subscribers. This increase in the number of members is due to the fact that
the Company increased the number of locations, where the reward points can be
used, in order to increase the number of TLC members from previously reported
187 thousand locations at the end of June 2014, composed of AEON Group and WAON
member stores, as shown in the table below.Profits in gas and oil businesses rose by retail price
revisions and improved productivity (2) Status by Business Segment
Earnings trends by business segment are as follows:○Gas and Oil Business TOKAI’s Gas and Oil segment achieved net sales of JPY 42.8 billion, a
JPY 0.9 billion increase y-o-y, and operating profit of JPY 2.0 billion, a JPY
0.9 billion increase y-o-y. Although the number of customers in LPG business, a
primary business in the segment, slightly decreased to 573 thousand, a y-o-y
decrease of 3 thousand, the net sales posted a single-digit gain because sales
of gas remained unchanged due to lower temperatures in the summer, as well as
because of the effects of retail price revisions conducted in the previous
half-year due to increased gas purchase prices. In the Company’s utility gas business, the
number of customers remained on a par with the level at 53 thousand y-o-y, and
net sales increased y-o-y due to the increase in sales unit prices under the
fuel cost adjustment system despite a slight decrease in gas sales y-o-y. Its
operating profit rose due to streamlining efforts including improved
productivity in addition to retail price revisions in the LPG business, which
amounted to JPY 500 million.○Information and
Telecommunications Information and
Telecommunications segment achieved net sales of JPY 19.5 billion, a y-o-y
increase of JPY 0.7 billion, and operating profit of JPY 2.4 billion, a y-o-y
increase of JPY 0.4 billion, resulting in a rise of operating profit ratio from
10.4% to 12.2%. The sales increase was attributable to increases in fee revenue
due to increase in the number of customers in broadband service business for
consumers, in system development orders from major system integrator companies
and in telecommunications and data center businesses for enterprise. Net sales
accounted for over 50% for broadband business, nearly 40% for enterprise
business and remaining percent for mobile business. The number of customers in the
broadband business is growing steadily, amounting to 847 thousand, a y-o-y
increase of 18 thousand, and the number of customers in the mobile business, a
cell phone distribution business, amounted to 231 thousand, a 10 thousand
increase y-o-y. The increase in operating profit was due to reduction in
customer acquisition cost as well higher income from services for corporates.○CATV CATV segment achieved net
sales of JPY 12.1 billion, a y-o-y increase of JPY 0.1 billion, and operating
profit of JPY 0.8 billion, a y-o-y decrease of JPY 0.1 billion. While the
number of customers in broadcasting business fell to 496 thousand due to
intensified competition with major telecommunications carriers, the number of
customers in telecommunications services rose to 194 thousand, an increase of 5
thousand. This is likely due to the effect of adopting a set discount in
collaboration with cell phone companies. As for profit, additional customer service cost due to the
Company’s termination of rebroadcasting programs
outside the digital range of Tokyo key stations resulted in lower margins.○Construction and Real
Estate Construction and Real Estate
segment achieved net sales of JPY 8.2 billion, a y-o-y increase of JPY 0.9
billion, and operating profit of JPY 0.1 billion, a y-o-y decrease of JPY 0.1
billion. The sales increase is mostly due to that the Company’s reform business in the Kanto region, which was included in Gas
and Oil segment in the previous half-year, has been transferred to Construction
and Real Estate segment; and, in real terms, it remained almost flat. Despite
steady progress in delivery of newly-built condominiums, the overall activity,
including housing sales and reform businesses, remained low due to the
consumption tax hike. ○Water Water segment achieved net
sales of JPY 2.4 billion, a y-o-y increase of JPY 0.3 billion, and operating
loss decreased from JPY 1.3 billion to JPY 1.0 billion. The number of customers
at the end of September steadily increased to 132 thousand, a y-o-y increase of
12 thousand. The sales increase was due to
factors including continued efforts to increase brand recognition of Urunon,
the Company’s water product, by using “Doraemon” as the image character for
One Way water delivery service, strengthening sales promotion focusing on large
commercial facilities in the Kansai, Hokuriku and Tohoku regions in addition to
the Kanto region and the launch of a new product, Sarari, smoother natural
water with less vanadium and mineral contents. For this segment, the Company
aims to reach its break-even point of 180 thousand customers in the fiscal year
ending March 2017. The increase of approximately JPY 0.1 billion in operating
profit was attributable to a decrease of approximately JPY 0.1 billion in
advertising expenses in addition to the sales increase due to increase in the
number of customers.○Others In “Others” segment, net sales amounted
to JPY 2.2 billion, and operating loss amounted to JPY 2.6 billion, remaining
unchanged from the previous corresponding year respectively. The Company has a
total of seven nursing facilities in its nursing business including recently
established facilities such as “Rifurea Mizuho”, a day-service facility opened in July, and “Rifurea Agetsuchi”, a nursing care home and
day-service facility opened in August. While the number of users in each
facility steadily increased with an increase in net sales, operating loss
increased due to a heavier burden from upfront investment. In wedding business,
net sales continued to decline as the number of weddings continues to fall. The
Company has decided to close one of its three wedding venues in Shizuoka at the
end of March 2015. Achieved annual targets for interest-bearing debt and
equity ratio 6 months ahead of schedule (3) Financial Status The following table shows the
Company’s financial status as of the end of
September 2014. Total assets amounted to JPY 164,477 million, a y-o-y decrease
of JPY 9,143 million. This is primarily due to decrease in accounts receivable,
tangible fixed assets, cash and goodwill. Meanwhile, total liabilities
amounted to JPY 125,521 million, a y-o-y decrease of JPY 9,770 million. This
was mainly resulted from lower interest-bearing debt and payment obligations.
Net assets amounted to JPY 38,956 million, a y-o-y increase of JPY 627 million.
The payout by dividends was covered by net profit and an increase in unrealized
capital gain on other securities. The Company has achieved its annual targets for interest-bearing
debt and equity ratio six months ahead of schedule. Thus, this suggests that
its financial structure is sound and improving.Original forecast for consolidated results was revised
upward, but on the conservative side (4) Forecast for FY Ending
March 2015 The Company’s forecast of consolidated results for the FY ending March 2015
was revised upward from its original forecast as follows: net sales increased
by 4.2% y-o-y to JPY 196,900 million; operating profit increased by 20.0% y-o-y
to JPY 8,870 million; recurring profit increased by 18.6% y-o-y to JPY 8,320
million; and net profit increased by 43.9% y-o-y to JPY 3,740 million. Given
that the cumulative operating profit in the second quarter exceeded the
forecast by approximately JPY 1,100 million, these upward revisions made for
the full year gave a conservative impression. The Company attributed this mainly to a possibility of increase
in customer acquisition cost in its broadband and CATV businesses, which are
expected to be more competitive due to NTT’s launch of wholesale fiber access in upcoming February 2015.The Company has maintained its
original forecast in the number of customers and net sales by business segment.
The numbers of customers of Water segment as well as of communications services
and Information and Telecommunications businesses in the CATV segment are
expected to grow. It also expects a slight increase in the Gas business by
reducing the churn rate. The Water segment has, up to the cumulative second
quarter, made steady progress, but the Gas, Information and Telecommunications
and CATV segments slightly fell short of the forecast. In net sales, all segments are
expected to increase. While Construction and Real Estate and Information and
Telecommunications segments progressed slightly less than the forecast
reflecting the prolonged impact of the consumption tax hike, a recovery is
expected in the second half of the year. Operating profit is expected to increase by 20% y-o-y led by the
Gas and Oil, Information Telecommunications and Water segments offsetting the
decline in the CATV, Construction and Real Estate and Others segments. 報告內容僅供參考，不得作為任何投資引用之唯一依據，且其投資風險及決定應由投資人自行判斷並自負損益。