MonotaROCo.,Ltd.(JP-3064)CreatingNewIndustryConventionswithOnlineDirectMarketingofMROProductsandContinuingtoGrowwithIncreasingSupportfromSmalltoMid-SizeCustomers
  2015-03-31 提供機構：FISCO 作者：FISCO 點閱次數：18   

MonotaRO Co., Ltd.
<3064> is headquartered in Amagasaki, Hyogo Prefecture. The Company
conducts Online Direct marketing of maintenance, repair, and operating (MRO)
products* as well as automotive after-market goods through the Internet. It
supplies customers in the construction, manufacturing, and automotive
after-market industries. A key characteristic of the
Company’s business model is that it sells MRO
products at a single price for all customers regardless of their scale or
purchase amount. This policy has won the Company strong support from small to
mid-size customers, who are usually forced to accept unfair prices from sellers
in a conventional market. In this way the Company has become a unique Online
Direct marketing operator in a niche market. As of January 2015, the number of
registered accounts has exceeded 1.4 million. As its customer base expands,
the Company’s earnings have also continued to grow.
Full-year net sales for the fiscal year ended December 2014, i.e FY12/14, grew
30% YoY to ¥44,937mn, while operating profit
increased 11.3% YoY to ¥4,323mn. Recurring profit
increased 11.6% YoY to ¥4,351mn and net profit set a
new record, rising 11.1% YoY to ¥2,544mn. The Company has firmly established itself in the MRO products
industry, and continues to grow under a policy of ongoing investments to
further enhance its strengths. Key developments to watch in the future include
the Company’s promotion of a purchase management
system business for large companies, and overseas businesses in South Korea,
Europe and the United States, and Southeast Asia, in addition to its core
domestic e-commerce business.◆Corporate Overview Member of the US MRO Supplier Grainger Group, Expanded
Overseas (1) Corporate History The Company was established in
October 2000 with investment from Sumitomo Corporation <8053> and major
US MRO supplier Grainger International, Inc. as SC Grainger. The following year
in 2001, the Company started the website MonotaRO.com (MonotaRO), specializing
in Online Direct marketing of MRO products. Through its sales of MRO products
through the website and catalogs, the Company has continued to expand its
customer base, particularly among small to mid-size companies. As of January
2015 the number of registered accounts was over 1.4 million, the number of
products for sale was over 8 million, and the number of the same day shipment
products was over 300,000. In 2006, the Company was listed on Tokyo Stock Exchange Mothers,
and in 2009 on the First Section. The main shareholder as of 2014 is Grainger,
which effectively has a majority stake when combined with the holdings of
Grainger Japan, Inc., putting the Company within Grainger’s scope of consolidation.Growing Support from Small to Mid-Size Companies As an
E-Commerce Operation Selling MRO Products at a Single Price (2) Business environment and
points of differentiation In procurement of MRO products,
small to mid-size companies cannot match large companies for the size and
frequency of orders. As a result, they have little negotiating power on prices
and are obliged to purchase at a disadvantage. MonotaRO was launched in the
market as a single channel selling items at a single price to companies
regardless of their scale, transaction history, and number of items purchased.
It has rapidly gained support from small to-mid-size businesses. While there are other
companies operating e-commerce businesses with overlapping merchandise, such as
ASKUL Corporation <2678> and MISUMI Corporation <9962>, in terms of
MRO products alone there appears to be no other independent company suitable
for comparison. (3) Basic strategy As the Company’s revenues expand with the
growth of its customer base, it will reinvest its earnings to increase its
product range and improve its service level in terms of IT and logistics
infrastructure. In this way the Company aims to continue a virtuous cycle that
feeds back into the repeat ratio among existing customers and the acquisition
of new customers.◆Business Overview Customer Base Growth Accelerating in the MRO Products
Online Direct Marketing Business “MonotaRO” The Company’s businesses can be broadly divided into three. (1) The MonotaRO business for
Online Direct marketing of MRO products The Company’s core business is the Online Direct marketing MRO product sales
business MonotaRO. This business targets corporate users who purchase MRO
products for use in their construction sites and factories. The number of registered accounts is increasing at an
accelerating pace. The average number of registered accounts per month in 2014
shows a steady increase with 244,000 for Q2 and 263,000 for Q4.Approaching Large Companies with a Purchase Management
System to Streamline Customers’ Internal Ordering Process (2) Purchase management system
business In this business the Company offers its products database to
connect large companies’system for purchasing MonotaRO
products on their own in-house platform. 166 companies have connected in
FY12/14 (up 46 YoY), with sales increasing 105%, more than double. In July
2014, the Company released its own platform “MonotaRO ONE SOURCE.”
MonotaRO ONE SOURCE links product and supplier information databases managed by
the customer with data of all products available from MonotaRO, enabling
customers to search and compare across suppliers other than the Company. The
system enables customers to perform all operations on a single platform, from selecting
the optimal product from a product search, to ordering and making payment.Expanding Overseas with a Subsidiary in South Korea and
Transferal of Expertise to Parent Company in the United States and Europe (3) Overseas business The Company is undertaking
overseas expansion in three ways. a) South Korean subsidiary
NAVIMRO The Company’s only consolidated subsidiary, NAVIMRO of South Korea, started
operating an MRO product e-commerce website similar to MonotaRO in April 2013.
NAVIMRO’s full-year growth for FY12/14 exceeded
initial targets by 76%, however the initial investment has not yet been
recovered. b) Royalty Business in the
United States and Europe In 2010 the Company’s parent company in the United States, Grainger, established the
MRO e-commerce company Zoro Tools, Inc., which achieved profitability one year
and four months later. The Company provides expertise to Zoro Tools and
receives royalties on the amount of its net sales. A similar business model is
also being developed in Europe. c) Exports into Southeast Asia
The Company established an
English-language website in October 2013 and exports products from its
distribution center in Japan to countries in Southeast Asia and other areas. ◆Overview of Financial Results Strong Operating Results Continued in FY12/14 with Double
Digit Increases in Sales and Profit (1) Overview of financial
results for FY12/14 The Company’s consolidated financial
results for FY12/14 are as follows. Sales were ¥44,937mn, up 30% YoY; operating profit was ¥4,323mn, up 11.3% YoY; recurring profit was ¥4,351mn, up 11.6% YoY; and net profit was ¥2,544mn, up 11.1% YoY.On the earnings front, the gross profit margin was 28.8% (down
1.4 percentage points YoY), the operating margin was 9.6% (down 1.6 percentage
points YoY), and the SG&A margin came in at 19.2% (up 0.3 of a percentage
point YoY).The Company experienced cost increases including higher
purchasing expenses due to the yen’s
depreciation, the impact of the product mix, and relocation costs such as
double rent following the establishment of a new distribution center.
Nevertheless, its profit margin declined only slightly because the increase in
costs was offset by an increase in net sales and the effect of cost reductions
in personnel expenses and communications expenses.FY12/15 Expected to See a Continued Increase in Sales for
a 14th Consecutive Year and Record for Profits for a 6th Consecutive Year (2) Operating results
forecasts for FY12/15 Business plan for FY12/15 For FY12/15, the Company is
forecasting sales of ¥55,617mn, up 23.8% YoY, gross
profit of ¥16,142mn, up 24.8% YoY, and operating
profit of ¥6,003mn, up 38.8% YoY. Recurring profit
is projected to come in at ¥5,999mn, up 37.9% YoY, and net
profit at ¥3,706mn, up 45.7% YoY, increasing for a
14th consecutive year and setting a new record for a 6th consecutive year. a) MonotaRO business The Company is aiming to
increase the number of registered accounts in FY12/15 by approximately 320,000,
or 14% YoY to 1,737,000. Assuming the same level of demand from existing
customers as in FY12/14, the company aims to increase sales by expanding the
number of items supplied, including entry into new categories, and by further
enhancing service levels. b) Purchase management system
business In the purchase management
system business, the Company intends to add to its scheme of links with the
existing systems of large customers by promoting the introduction of MonotaRO
ONE SOURCE. c) Overseas business The South Korean subsidiary
NAVIMRO will target net sales of ¥2,500mn, and is projecting an
operating loss of around ¥380mn. Royalty income from the
United States and Europe is on an increasing trend, and looks set to contribute
to a higher gross margin. ◆Growth strategies Aiming to Double Net Sales to ¥100bn under the Medium-Term Management Plan There is a high level of need for the lower MRO product costs
among small to mid-size businesses, which are the Company’s main customers. The Company therefore appears still to have
plenty of potential for new customer acquisition. Under its medium-term
management plan, the Company is planning to double net sales to ¥100bn.◆Shareholder Return Policy FY12/14 Dividend of ¥14, Dividend Increase of \6 Forecast for FY12/15 The Company’s policy on dividends is to pay a stable dividend in accordance
with its operating results. For FY12/14, the interim
dividend was \7.00 and the Company plans to pay a year-end dividend of \7.00,
for a full year dividend of \14.00 (dividend payout ratio of 33.7%). Moreover,
the Company is planning a significant annual dividend increase of \6 for
FY12/15 to \20 (dividend payout ratio of 33.1%). The dividend payout ratio is
forecast to fall slightly below that of FY12/14, but the Company intends to
continue stable dividend increases in line with its growth going forward. The Company offers shareholder benefits in the form of private
brand product gift of around \3,000 in value for each shareholder holding 100
or more shares at the end of the financial year (December 31). 報告內容僅供參考，不得作為任何投資引用之唯一依據，且其投資風險及決定應由投資人自行判斷並自負損益。