G-7HOLDINGSINC.(JP-7508)TokyoStockExchangeFirstSectionCorebusinessinfranchisestoreoperation,promotingdirectsalesofagriculturalproductsandoverseasexpansion
  2015-07-07 提供機構：FISCO 作者：FISCO 點閱次數：15   

G-7 HOLDINGS INC. (hereafter, “G-7” or “the Group”) is a holding company that
owns subsidiaries operating the largest franchisee of AUTOBACS stores and
Business Supermarkets in Japan. It is also promoting the development of
agricultural, foodstuffs and restaurant businesses, as well as overseas
businesses, utilizing M&A to promote operational expansion. Consolidated FY3/15 results
showed higher revenues but lower earnings, with net sales up 0.1% YoY to ¥88,261 mn, while ordinary income declined 20.0% to \2,512 mn.
Despite Business Supermarket and quality food businesses showing an increase in
both revenues and earnings, the impact of the hike in consumption tax lingered
and, apart from lower revenues and earnings in AUTOBACS and car-related
businesses, factors such as increased upfront investment costs were behind
profit declines. In FY3/16 the Group is aiming
for net sales to increase 13.3% YoY to \100,000 mn and ordinary income to
increase 59.2% YoY to \4,000 mn. Apart from opening 15 new AUTOBACS and
car-related business locations and around 10 new Business Supermarkets locations,
it is promoting a strengthening of profitability at existing stores by putting
into practice “cost reductions, improved per capita
productivity and appropriate inventory (levels).” In respect of the start from April, G-7 appears to be
performing soundly overall, with, for example, net sales exceeding those of two
years ago and an improvement in the consumer mindset. In overseas business, apart from planning to open new
restaurants in Indonesia, under a plan to expand operations to countries
including Taiwan, the Philippines, Laos and Cambodia, the Group is aiming for
net sales from overseas operations of \10,000 mn in five years’ time. Given that, for the time being, the investment phase is
continuing, their contribution to earnings is still some way off, however, it
is hoped in the long-term that they will grow into businesses that drive the
Group’s (overall) results.◆Business Overview AUTOBACS and Business
Supermarket franchise operations form the Group’s core The Group’s operations are disclosed in three operating segments: AUTOBACS
and car-related businesses, Business Supermarkets and quality food businesses,
and other businesses. Looking at the FY3/15 composition of net sales by
business segment, we see that AUTOBACS and car-related businesses represented
37.5% and Business Supermarkets and quality food businesses 59.4%, with these
two business segments representing 96.9% of overall operations. ○AUTOBACS and
Car-related Businesses The Group’s AUTOBACS franchise business consists of activities including
car product sales and maintenance developed by G-7 AUTO SERVICE CO., LTD., and
motorcycle product sales and maintenance developed by G-7 MOTORS CO., LTD.
AUTOBACS-related (sales) represent approximately 90% of net sales (in this
segment), with 67 AUTOBACS-related stores as of end-March 2015 giving it the
largest scale within (the 586) AUTOBACS Group stores; and with a key feature
being that it enjoys the highest profitability among the Group’s stores. On the other hand, Bike SEVEN, which engages in direct
sales of motorcycle products, operates 11 stores domestically and in Malaysia. ○Business Supermarket
and Quality Food Businesses These consist of Business
Supermarket franchisee (operations) developed by G-7 SUPER MART CO., LTD., and
food product and restaurant operations developed by G7 JAPAN FOOD SERVICE CO.,
LTD. G-7 SUPER MART CO., LTD. represents more than 90% of net sales, with its
112 supermarket outlets as of end-March 2015 giving it the largest scale within
(the 693) Business Supermarket Group stores. On the other hand, in April 2015, G7 JAPAN FOOD SERVICE CO.,
LTD., as well as acquiring what was before G-7 FOOD SYSTEM CO., LTD. (which had
operations including its quality food business, and the former UENO-SHOKUHIN
and former Cold Family businesses), integrated them with its domestic
restaurant business, private label food product development business,
export/import, online sales and other businesses, seeking to strengthen
organizational structures.○Other Businesses Apart from G-7 AGRI JAPAN CO., LTD., that operates the Megumi no
Sato farmers’ market chain, the Group’s main other business consist of multiple operations including
recycling stores, DAISO [4046] discount (100 yen shop) stores, and real estate
leasing developed by G-7 DEVELOPMENT CO., LTD., as well as overseas operations
undertaken by G7 INTERNATIONAL PTE. LTD. (except for AUTOBACS and BIKE SEVEN
operations in Malaysia).◆Results Trends Higher revenues but lower
earnings in FY3/15, Business Supermarket and quality food businesses drive
results (1) FY3/15 Results Overview In the Group’s consolidated FY3/15 results
announced on May 11, there was an increase in net sales but declines in
earnings, with net sales up 0.1% YoY to \88,261 mn, while operating income
declined 20.5% YoY to \2,306 mn, ordinary income declined 20.0% YoY to \2,512
mn and net income was down 17.4% YoY to \1,272 mn; also coming in under the
Company Plan. While core Business Supermarket and quality food businesses
maintained revenue and earnings growth, the reason for lower earnings was
deterioration in income from its AUTOBACS and car-related and Other businesses.
Trends by business are as set out below.○AUTOBACS and
Car-related Business Net sales declined 8.0% YoY to
\33,095mn, and operating income fell 40.4% YoY to \1,124mn. Depressed sales, as
a result of the impact from the hike in consumption tax, have lingered longer
than expected, with both AUTOBACS and BIKE SEVEN suffering declines in revenues
and earnings. Looking at the status of sales
by category in its AUTOBACS businesses, we can see declines in all categories,
including year-on-year declines of 2.9% in tires and wheels, 22.7% in car electronics,
10.7% in accessories and 4.6% for services such as statutory inspections and
body and paint jobs. In respect of tires and wheels, low priced Chinese made
products entering the market and a lower number of days with snowfalls compared
to last year were among the reasons behind revenue declines. In the car
electronics category, although affected by sluggishness in car navigation,
sales in some areas such as drive recorders and radars expanded. In addition,
in the category of services, an underlying increase in revenues from statutory
inspections continued. The number of new store openings, being three for AUTOBACS (two
in Chiba, one in Okayama), and two for BIKE SEVEN (one in Chiba, one in
Malaysia) was an overall increase of five stores compared with the end of the
previous period, making 104 stores.Moreover, in respect of Malaysia, the Group commenced AUTOBACS
operations in 2012 (with two stores currently) and BIKE SEVEN in 2013 (also
with two stores currently), and while the scale of sales is small at less than
1% of the overall, they are expanding steadily with AUTOBACS growth in the 10%
to 20% range and BIKE SEVEN over the 20% mark. In respect of AUTOBACS, the
demand for maintenance is robust, representing approximately half of net sales.
In addition, in respect of BIKE SEVEN, with an ample product line-up for items
such as parts and accessories, and customer traffic that has been sound since
opening it is expanding steadily. However, the upfront investment, including
new store opening costs, is high and, on a profit basis, losses are continuing
on par with FY3/14.○Business Supermarket
and Quality Food Businesses FY3/15 net sales increased
6.4% YoY to \52,420mn, with operating income up 3.7% YoY to \1,447mn. Within
this business, apart from Business Supermarket sales, which represent more than
90% of the overall, performing soundly, rising 5.1% YoY to \47,177mn, the
quality food products business performed well, rising 9.8% YoY to \4,673mn. In respect of Business Supermarkets, due to a continuing
consumer budget consciousness, as a result of the impact of a hike in
consumption tax, net sales on an existing store basis rose year-on-year.
Further, compared to end of the previous period the total number of stores
increased by 6 to 112, with the number of new store openings including three in
Hokkaido, and one each in Hyogo, Kanagawa and Saitama prefectures. In the plan
at the beginning of the period around 10 new store openings had been planned,
however, identifying properties for candidate store sites became challenging,
and the store opening pace slightly lower than initially expected.On the other hand, in the
quality food business, the acquisition of new accounts and unearthing of new
products, focusing on Eastern Japan, proceeded, with both sales and profits
performing soundly. Further, both the former UENO-SHOKUHIN and former Cold
Family businesses, which have struggled in the first half of FY3/15 recovered
in the second half of the year. ○Other Businesses FY3/15 net sales decreased
7.1% YoY to \2,746 mn, while operating losses were \249 mn (compared to a loss
of \62mn in the previous period). Within this, in respect of the Megumi no Sato
farmers’ market chain, including the impact of a
surge in vegetable prices, net sales performed soundly, and from a profit
perspective also, as a result of a revision of commission rates and other
factors, there was a shift, albeit slight, into the black. On the other hand, in respect
of its recycling, restaurant and other businesses, sales were sluggish due to
the impact from the consumption tax hike, (with these operations) posting
losses. Further, its agri businesses being developed in Vietnam and Myanmar,
and restaurant businesses being developed in Malaysia and Vietnam are in the
investment phase, and continued to post operating losses. In Vietnam, the Group is currently undertaking the production of
chrysanthemums at a scale of around 400,000 plants per annum, and selling them
through the Megumi no Sato farmers’
market chain. Further, in Myanmar it is undertaking the cultivation of
strawberries, and is currently at the stage where it is aiming to tackle the
establishment of the means of transportation to distribute from the
agricultural production sites to urban areas that have supermarkets and other
facilities.AUTOBACS-related business
sound in April, significant revenue and earnings increases are targeted in
FY3/16 (2) FY3/16 Results Outlook FY3/16 consolidated results
anticipate net sales up 13.3% YoY to \100,000 mn, operating income up 60.4% YoY
to \3,700 mn, ordinary income up 59.2% YoY to \4,000 mn and net income up 65.0%
YoY to \2,100 mn. These figures are at the same levels as those targeted in the
Mid-term Management Plan. Holding the key to achieving the plan are its core
AUTOBACS and Business Supermarket businesses. The outlook by business is as set
out below. ○AUTOBACS and
Car-related Businesses It is planned that FY3/16 net
sales from AUTOBACS and car-related businesses will show double-digit revenue
growth of 17.8% YoY to \39,000 mn. The main reason for this is that new
AUTOBACS-related store openings will be in the order of 15, a significant
increase over the three in the previous period. Apart from AUTOBACS, the Group
will expand the number of AUTOBACS Express gasoline stands, BP body works and
paint job centers and other bases. Currently, three AUTOBACS Express sites have
been decided, while, in respect of the remaining 12 sites, they are planned to
be identified going forward, including M&A. From a profit perspective,
while there are cost increases associated with new store openings, increased
profits are expected as a result of strengthening profitability at existing
stores. Apart from continuing to put into practice “cost reductions, improvements in per capita productivity and
appropriate inventory levels”, by proactively holding
Thanks Fairs, G-7 Mall Festivals and other events, the Group will expand net
sales. Further, apart from continuing to also tackle maintaining selling
prices, by raising the ratio of sales for high-value-added services (such as
statutory inspections, body works and paint jobs) from the current 20%, the
Group is promoting (other) improvements in profitability. In respect of the
April start, it appears that the Group is performing soundly, with indications
including improvement in the consumer mindset and net sales exceeding levels of
two years ago. Moreover, overseas the plan is to open one AUTOBACS and one BIKE
SEVEN store each in Malaysia in Q4 (Jan-Mar 2016). The Group also intends to
enter Vietnam if it can secure good locations, with a plan to promote store
development from 2016 onwards.○Business Supermarket
and Quality Food Businesses Net sales from Business
Supermarkets and the quality food businesses are expected to rise 10.6% YoY to
\58,000 mn. Within this, the outlook is for core Business Supermarket business
net sales to rise 12.3% YoY to \53,000 mn. Apart from the fact that the pace of
new store openings will accelerate from six in the previous period to 10, it is
premised on net sales at existing stores performing soundly with a 2% YoY rise.
On the other hand, from FY3/16
net sales at G7 Japan Food Services, which will integrate food and domestic
restaurant businesses, are expected to be \5,000 mn. It is expected that
revenue will continue to expand due to ongoing expansion in quality food
accounts and the unearthing of new products. Further, the Group intends to
tackle exports to Asia also of agricultural, fisheries and livestock products,
and has positioned FY3/16 as a year for focusing on acquiring (new) sales
channel. ○Other Businesses Revenue and earnings growth are
expected in respect of other businesses. In respect of its Megumi no Sato
business, apart from opening several new stores in the Kansai region,
nationally the Group’s policy is for mass store
deployment via partnership contracts. Given that these are not franchise
agreements, but only gain membership income at the time of contract, the direct
impact on results will be slight. However, by expanding its procurement network
nationwide, it may reduce the risk of stock shortages for products in Megumi no
Sato stores, where concerns arise in instances of, for example, unseasonable
weather. As the counterparty for its
first round of licensing agreements, it has concluded a contract with Furusato
Farms K.K. of Miyagi Prefecture. Apart from plans to open Megumi no Sato stores
within Miyagi Prefecture, it is considering supplying fresh, safe fruit and
vegetables to Megumi no Sato stores in the Kansai area from the Tohoku area.
Further, in the Kanto area also, the Group is moving ahead on partnership
agreement negotiations with multiple companies, and it is expected that the
number of partnership agreement counterparties will keep increasing. Further, in respect of
overseas operations (restaurants, imports and exports of food products, agri
business etc.), despite expecting 15-20% growth in net sales it is expected
that operating losses will continue, due to an increase in upfront capital
costs, such as new store openings. Tropical fruit known also as
pitaya. On its surface, it has protuberances that are a green color like that
peculiar to the leaves of cactus fruits. The skin is typically a brilliant,
glossy red. However, because the surface looks like the scales of a dragon, it
is called dragon fruit. Halal is a generic term for “healthy foods and activities” allowed by the teachings of Islam (Sharia Law and the tenets of
Islam). Muslims must avoid all foods and beverages apart from those officially
recognized as halal products. Halal denotes guidelines for indicating a safe
lifestyle, and are for Muslims essential standards that are applied in
cosmetics, pharmaceuticals, nursing care equipment, as well as finance and a
range of services.◆Overseas Business
Strategy Establishing businesses in
multiple countries to achieve economic growth in Southeast Asia Domestically, the Group has
continued to grow by promoting mass store development as an AUTOBACS and
Business Supermarkets franchisee, however, in the long-term, to continue
sustainable growth expansion, it feels it is crucial to create a new earnings
channel, and is beginning to focus on overseas businesses as one such channel. As noted above, the Group has
begun to establish, simultaneously and in parallel, operations including
AUTOBACS and car-related businesses, agri businesses, imports and exports of
food products and restaurants in multiple countries. Going forward, it also
plans to expand to Indonesia, Taiwan, the Philippines, Laos, Cambodia and other
countries, the strategy being to engage with economic growth in Southeast Asia.
The Group has cited net sales of \10,000 mn in five years’ time in FY3/20 as a numerical business target. Given that going
forward investment at a pace of around \400-500 mn will continue annually, a
contribution from a profit perspective will be some way off, however, looking
at the long-term it will be a focus of attention as it grows into a business
that drives (overall) Group results expansion. Following Malaysia the Group
plans to expand its AUTOBACS and car-related businesses to Vietnam, with a
policy of promoting mass store expansion. Further, it is also considering
expansion into other countries where the automobile and motorcycle markets are
expected to expand. In its agri businesses, it is
expected that means of transportation, which became an issue in its strawberry
cultivation in Myanmar, will be established. In FY3/16, by introducing 2-3
refrigerated trucks and seeking to expand possible transport time from growing
areas, it plans to start shipping to CityMart affiliated stores in urban areas.
Further, the Group is engaged in chrysanthemum cultivation in Vietnam, and in
FY3/16 will commence cultivation of dragon fruit in collaboration with a local
fruit producer. It plans to sell the fruit harvested at Megumi no Sato stores. In its restaurant operations,
following on from its Malaysian ramen shop and Vietnamese curry house, the
company plans to open one ramen shop in Indonesia in FY3/16. In Indonesia also
it will not be halal compliant, but have Chinese and Japanese as its target
customer group. In the future also it is considering entering into licensing
agreements and expanding stores into Asia in respect of those types of
businesses where demand is expected. Moreover, in respect of
restaurant operations, its policy is to open one or two directly held shops in
each country, and after that expand by entering into a franchise agreement with
a local company. Further, in respect of its
food product exporting businesses, it is already exporting, albeit on a small
scale, kamameshi (pots with rise, meat and vegetable) and meat products to
Singapore, Hong Kong and other locations. From FY3/16 apart from concentrating
on developing cost competitive private label products, it will strengthen
exports of agricultural, fisheries and livestock products. In respect of
agricultural, fisheries and livestock products, apart from proceeding with
acquiring suppliers by itself, it has positioned FY3/16 as a year to focus on
expanding new routes for gaining accounts in relation to sales channels. Additionally, in respect of its M&A strategy, there is no
change in the policy adopted to date that it will proactively consider in all
of its businesses any deal where it is expected that it will bring synergistic
benefits.◆Shareholder Returns
Policy Underlying Group policy of
stable dividends, with a payout ratio of 30% as the yardstick The Company’s underlying policy is to
return profits to shareholders in accordance with business performance,
premised on maintaining stable dividends, making a comprehensive determination,
while taking into consideration factors including capital required for future
business expansion and its financial condition. The company generally aims to
maintain a dividend payout ratio of around 30%. For FY3/16 the dividend has
been set at \34.0 per share, yielding a dividend payout ratio of 19.7%, with it
expected that this will be topped up by way of a special dividend, if results
achieve the Group’s its planned targets. 報告內容僅供參考，不得作為任何投資引用之唯一依據，且其投資風險及決定應由投資人自行判斷並自負損益。