SoftcreateHoldings(JP-3371)TokyoStockExchangeFirstSectionDrivingfastergrowthbycapturingsynergiesbetweene-commercesupportandInternetadvertising(II)
  2015-02-02 提供機構：FISCO 作者：FISCO 點閱次數：32   

◆Financial Analysis The company will be able to maintain its high ROE through
steady sales growth and enhanced profitability Softcreate Holdings’ return on equity (ROE) reached 14.2% in FY3/14. Considering
that an ROE of 15% is seen as a target for multinational companies, the company
has a strong ROE. That said, we estimate the
company’s ROE will decline to 13.5% in FY3/15.
Analyzing the component factors of ROE, the main factors behind the lower ROE
estimate were decreases in financial leverage from 1.55 to 1.52 times from
FY3/14 to FY3/15, and a decline in the asset turnover rate from 1.44 to 1.28
times, despite an increase in the net profit margin from 6.3% to 7.0%. We are paying close attention
to the net profit margin. Sales are forecast to decrease in FY3/15. This means
the higher net profit margin is a reflection of lower sales rather than growth
in net profit. Looking at this from a different perspective, the increase in
shareholders’ equity of 9.4% is greater than the
increase in net profit of 4.8%, resulting in a lower ROE. The situation in FY3/15 is
such that Softcreate Holdings remains a growth company despite possibly
appearing to have excess capital that has temporarily entered a phase of
contraction. One means of breaking the impasse would be to curb the growth in
shareholders’ equity by increasing dividends. However,
since the company aims to pay a stable dividend with a dividend payout ratio
target of 30%, we believe temporarily increasing the dividend drastically would
be difficult for it to achieve. Hence, the only way forward as a growth company
is to achieve solid earnings growth through increased sales growth and enhanced
profitability. Taking into account the company’s business model, its competitiveness in the industry and other
factors, we believe that the company is well positioned to attain this growth.◆Business Performance Trend Higher sales and profits in 1H FY3/15 with sales and
profit items above initial forecasts (1) 1H FY3/15 Business Results
In 1H FY3/15 (April to September 2014), Softcreate Holdings
reported consolidated sales of \5,811 million, up 8.5% year on year, operating
profit of \667mn, up 8.9% year on year, recurring profit of \701mn, up 10.6%
year on year, and net profit of \463mn, up 58.8% year on year. Sales and profit
items were above initial forecasts.The EC solutions business
expanded steadily, posting segment sales of \2,794mn, up 17.0% year on year
from 1H FY3/14, and segment profit of \549mn, up 2.4% year on year. This
reflected expansion in the e-commerce market, along with efforts to strengthen
the Web promotion business (Internet advertising agency business). Heightened
customer requirements for e-commerce services are making systems increasingly
complex. Softcreate Holdings endeavored to win contracts by prioritizing
developing businesses that maximize its system construction capabilities in
areas where it excels. For this reason, several business negotiations
ultimately did not come to fruition. Nevertheless, new contracts received grew
steadily to 48 by September 30, 2014 (April to September 2014). In the SI business, there were concerns that network
construction sales would be affected by the pull-back in demand from the
consumption tax hike. However, network construction sales grew steadily, along
with brisk sales of the L2Blocker security software developed in-house. Sales
of L2Blocker were driven by heightened awareness of security among companies
following major data leak incidents. The product sales business delivered a
solid performance in line with the strong showing by the SI business.Stable growth continues, with strong prospects for
business expansion from FY3/16 (2) Business outlook For FY3/15, Softcreate
Holdings is forecasting sales of \11,500mn, down 4.3% year on year, operating
profit of \1,501mn, up 2.2% year on year, recurring profit of \1,510mn, up 0.6%
year on year, and net profit of \800mn, up 4.8% year on year. The company has
not revised its initial forecasts. Business results for 1H FY3/15 surpassed the company’s forecasts. Therefore, assuming performance in 2H FY3.15 tracks
initial forecasts, full-year sales are expected to be around \200mn above
forecast, and profits are also expected to surpass forecasts in line with
sales.Currently, the business
environment in 2H FY3/15 is largely unchanged from 1H FY3/15, and there are no
special factors that could alter the company’s business performance. That said, the possible negative impact
on the company of the decision to postpone the consumption tax hike must be
taken into consideration. The reason is that consumption tax rate revisions
will create new demand for system modifications, software updates and other
services from companies, and so will provide business opportunities for the
company’s SI business and other businesses.
However, given that the initially planned timeframe for the consumption tax
hike was October 2015, we believe that the postponement of the consumption tax
hike will have only a negligible impact on the company’s business results for FY3/15. Business results are expected to remain mostly flat in FY3/15.
However, we believe that earnings growth will start to pick up again from
FY3/16. This outlook is based on steady growth in the Web promotion business
within the EC solutions business, which will serve as a major earnings driver.
Currently, the company’s EC solutions business has
approximately 600 active customers. Softcreate Holdings sees around 40% of
these companies (approximately 240 companies) as potential customers of the Web
promotion business. Therefore, sales in the Web promotion business have the
potential to triple or even quadruple from the current level. Because
Softcreate Holdings adheres to a basic management policy focused on
profitability, we believe it will be sufficient to monitor Web promotion sales
and new contracts received in EC solutions as the company’s two KPIs.◆Shareholder Returns Annual dividend of \20 per share for FY3/15, up \3 per
share from FY3.14 The management of Softcreate
Holdings is positive about rewarding company shareholders. Dividends are the
primary means of returning profits to shareholders. It has also introduced a
shareholder benefit program. The company emphasizes stable
dividend payments, with a dividend payout ratio target of 30%. Management has
raised dividends when profits were higher than expected, but it has never cut
dividends when profits were lower than expected. As for dividends for FY3/15,
the company initially forecast an annual dividend of \18 per share, an increase
of \1 from the previous fiscal year (FY3/14). However, at the earnings
announcement for 1H FY3/15, the company announced that it will raise the annual
dividend to \20 per share, an increase of \3 from the previous fiscal year. Shareholder benefits are intended to convey a message of
gratitude from the company to its individual shareholders. Individual
shareholders are eligible to receive original QUO cards worth between \1,000 to
\6,000 every year according to the number of shares held. Based on the share
price as of January 14, the investment yield on 100 shares held, including
shareholder benefits, would have been 3.3%. 報告內容僅供參考，不得作為任何投資引用之唯一依據，且其投資風險及決定應由投資人自行判斷並自負損益。