JUSTPLANNINGINC.(JP-4287)TSEJASDAQTargetingdouble-digitnetsalesandearningsgrowthonceagaininFY1/16,afterfinishingFY1/15withhighernetsalesandearnings
  2015-05-07 提供機構：FISCO 作者：FISCO 點閱次數：8   

JUST PLANNING, Inc. (4287)
provides the restaurant industry with Makasete Net, an ASP service that is used
for sales, purchasing, workers’ attendance management and
other functions. The number of subscribing restaurants reached an all-time high
at 4,733 as of January 31, 2015. By offering value-added services such as
Makasete Touch and optimization assessment services for public utility bills,
the Company is taking steps to increase average revenue per user (ARPU), with
the aim of further increasing earnings. Looking at the Company’s consolidated business performance for the fiscal year ended
January 2015 (FY1/15), JUST PLANNING reported higher earnings on higher net
sales for the fiscal year. Net sales were \1,851mn, up 1.0% year on year (yoy),
and operating income was \443mn, up 4.8% yoy. These results were underpinned by
a strong performance in the Logistics Solution Business, which delivered
double-digit growth in net sales and earnings, plus a steady increase in the
number of subscribing restaurants in the mainstay ASP Business. The Logistics
Solution Business is being developed by a subsidiary of JUST PLANNING. In FY1/16, the Company is
projecting double-digit growth in net sales and earnings. Net sales are
forecast to increase 18.8% yoy to \2,200mn and operating income is forecast to
rise 16.0% to \515mn. In the ASP Business, the Company is targeting monthly
usage fees of just over \84 million, up \10 million from the previous fiscal
year-end, based on higher ARPU from existing customers mainly atop the
full-scale launch of Makasete Touch, and by developing new customers. Furthermore,
the solar power generation business, which was initiated in February 2015, is
expected to contribute to higher net sales and earnings. This new business is
projected to push up net sales by around \55-\60mn and operating income by
around \25mn. The Company plans to proactively form business alliances in
order to develop new customers. It formed a partnership with Seiko Solutions
Inc. on the supply of Makasete Touch POS services in December 2014. In
addition, the Company plans to enter into partnerships with various alliance
partners to develop business with restaurants run by individual owners.
Moreover, the Company is looking at introducing new services such as restaurant
referral services for overseas visitors in response to the increase in overseas
visitors to Japan. As these new services steadily start contributing to
earnings, we believe that the Company has a greater chance of restoring growth
in its business results, which have languished for the past few years.◆Business Overview ASP Business: core earnings
driver representing 49.0% of net sales and 80.8% of gross profit The Company’s operations are classified into four business
segments: the ASP Business,* the
System Solution Business, the Logistics Solution Business, and the Other
Business. The graph below shows the composition of net sales and gross profit
by business segment in FY1/15. The ASP Business is the core earnings driver,
representing 49.0% of net sales and 80.8% of gross profit. The following is a
description of each business segment.○ASP Business In the ASP Business, the core
service is Makasete Net. This service allows customers to utilize the business
software they need to operate various aspects of restaurants, such as sales,
purchasing, and attendance management, via the Internet. The main customers for
this service are small and medium-sized restaurant companies that operate
chains of between 20 and 50 restaurants. Introducing Makasete Net makes it
possible for these client companies to promptly and inexpensively gather, manage
and analyze data on operating conditions at their restaurants. Although the monthly usage fee
for Makasete Net varies depending on the menu of services chosen by the
customer, the standard monthly price of a full-service subscription is \44,000.
This compares with an average monthly usage fee of just under \20,000 per
restaurant at present. The main reason for this difference appears to be that
there are many companies that subscribe to only some of the functions offered
by the service, such as sales management and attendance management. Even so,
compared with the monthly fee level of around \10,000 offered by many of its
competitors, JUST PLANNING has a relatively high price structure within the
industry. The Company can justify this high price level because it provides
customization support free of charge, unlike other companies that charge an
additional fee for this type of support. (However, JUST PLANNING does charge a
separate fee for making substantive customized changes to its service specifications).
The number of subscribing restaurants for Makasete Net stood at
4,733 as of January 31, 2015, representing 219 corporate subscribers, reaching
an all-time high after three straight years of growth. According to the Japan
Franchise Association, the number of restaurant chains in Japan has been
gradually increasing as a trend, reaching 57,600 as of the end of FY3/14.
Therefore, JUST PLANNING has an industry share of just under 10%, but its share
of business with small and medium-sized restaurant chains, its targeted
customer base, appears to be over 10%.Looking at JUST PLANNING’s competitors, rival companies of a
similar size include Alphax Food System Co., Ltd. (3814), Hitachi Systems,
Ltd., and Aspit Co., Ltd. Of these, Alphax Food System Co., Ltd. has surpassed
JUST PLANNING in terms of having the industry’s largest number of subscribers,
with 7,039 subscribing restaurants (282 corporate subscribers) as of the end of
September 2014. Moreover, Infomart Corporation (2492) also provides order receipt
and placement services related to ASP services for restaurant companies, and
some of its services overlap with those of JUST PLANNING. That said, Infomart
Corporation is mainly focused on providing services primarily to the selling
side, i.e., food wholesalers. For this reason, the two companies have
established a good business relationship, by, for example, cooperating with one
another on systems for shared customers.Furthermore, in terms of
services other than Makasete Net, optimization assessment services for public
utility fees were initiated in 2014. Other services include Makasete Touch,
which is a cloud-based POS ordering service unveiled in fall 2012, and AppCRM,
which is a set of sales promotion and customer management services that
utilizes smartphone apps. Of these services, Makasete
Touch is a service type known as a cloud-based POS ordering service. It
replaces dedicated devices used by restaurant staff to take orders from guests
with general-purpose devices such as iPad and iPod touch. Since the service was
unveiled in fall 2012, JUST PLANNING has continued test marketing at 30
restaurants. Having upgraded and expanded the service functions to the same
standard as the functionality of dedicated devices, the Company will begin
marketing the Makasete Touch service in earnest in 2015. Looking at the main features
of Makasete Touch, the service enables initial deployment costs to be reduced
to approximately one-third of the cost of systems using dedicated devices. In
addition, because the service makes use of devices that are widely used by the
general public, restaurant operators stand to benefit, for example, from
reduced staff education and training costs as staff can obtain proficiency with
the devices in a shorter period of time. Moreover, in the future, the Company
plans to upgrade and expand the service to include additional functions such as
services that allow restaurant guests to order directly from their smartphones,
and services that lead to an enhanced customer service experience by utilizing
ordering information. The total monthly usage fee per restaurant for Makasete
Touch is \19,800. This breaks down into \9,800 for the ordering service, \5,000
for the POS service, and \5,000 for maintenance services. Several companies have already developed POS ordering services
using smart devices. The difference between JUST PLANNING and these early
corporate entrants is that JUST PLANNING provides its services through Web
browsers, whereas other companies provide services through dedicated apps. With
service delivery through dedicated apps, the apps may need to be updated every
time there is a change in operating system (OS) specifications by Apple or
Google. Therefore, JUST PLANNING believes that dedicated apps run the risk of
service delivery interruptions if updates are not made in time for changes in
OS specifications. Service delivery through Web browsers does not have this
risk. Instead, initially, the disadvantage of Web browsers was that response
speeds to user operations were slow. However, the Company has since improved
service delivery to the point where response speeds are almost identical to
those of dedicated apps. Another unique strength of the Company is that it
simultaneously provides the Makasete Net restaurant operation management
service in conjunction with Makasete Touch.○System Solution
Business The System Solution Business
mainly comprises the sale of various devices and equipment, such as POS systems
and order entry systems that are deployed by the restaurants of companies
subscribing to ASP services, as well as related system configuration and
maintenance revenues. However, net sales in the System Solution Business have a
weak correlation with the ASP Business. The reason is that there is no need for
customers to repurchase devices and other equipment that are already installed
in a restaurant. This holds true even when customers are subscribing to the ASP
service for the first time. Furthermore, the profitability on sales of devices
and other equipment is relatively low because these items are purchased from
third parties for sale to the customer. ○Logistics Solution
Business The Logistics Solution
Business is mainly being developed by SuccessWay Inc., a subsidiary of JUST
PLANNING. This business mainly comprises logistics solutions and merchandising
solutions for restaurant companies, along with corporate business support
services. Currently, the gross margin of this business, at around 15%, is
relatively lower than other business segments, partly because labor-intensive logistics
business support services account for the bulk of net sales in this segment.
Going forward, the strategy for the Logistics Solution Business is to enhance
profitability by expanding sales of the Logi Logi System, a logistics
management ASP service developed by JUST PLANNING (the number of restaurants
subscribing to the Logi Logi System is approximately 400). ○Others Business In the Others Business, JUST PLANNING operates one restaurant
(an izakaya diner) as a training venue for employees to obtain expertise on
restaurant operations. In addition, in October 2014, the Company acquired one
golf bar in Fukuoka Prefecture. Moreover, in February 2015, the Company
initiated a solar power generation business in the Nasu area of Tochigi
Prefecture. Each of these businesses is operated by JP Power, a subsidiary of
JUST PLANNING.◆Overview of Financial
Results Net sales and operating
income rose yoy, despite lower earnings at the ordinary income level (1) Overview of financial
results for FY1/15 Consolidated financial results
for FY1/15 were announced on March 13, 2015. Net sales were \1,851mn, up 1.0%
yoy, operating income was \443mn, up 4.8%, ordinary income was \413mn, down
1.7%, and net income for the year was \220mn, down 67.7%. Net sales and operating income both increased yoy atop an
increase in the number of subscribing restaurants in the ASP Business and a
strong performance in the Logistics Solution Business. However, earnings
decreased at the ordinary income level mainly due to an increase in loss on
equity-method investments from \7mn to \34mn under non-operating items.
Furthermore, the Company recorded a double-digit decrease in net income for the
year. This mainly reflected the recording of an allowance for doubtful accounts
of \65mn for other accounts receivable in connection with solar power
generation equipment (The Company plans to sell solar power equipment upon the
cancellation of a project in Yamanashi Prefecture.), as well as the absence of
a gain on sale of investment securities of \704mn recorded in FY1/14 (due to
the dissolution of a business and capital alliance with Digital Garage, Inc.
(4819). Additionally, the underperformance against the company’s forecasts was
primarily due to sluggish sales in the System Solution Business.Higher net sales and earnings
due to steady growth in the number of subscribing restaurants in the core ASP
Business (2) Performance trends by
business segment ○ASP Business In the ASP Business, net sales
were \906mn, an increase of 1.5% yoy, and gross profit was \704mn, an increase
of 3.1% yoy. The main contributor was steady growth in the number of
subscribing restaurants to 4,733 as of January 31, 2015, an increase of 499
restaurants from the previous fiscal year-end. Furthermore, the gross margin
increased 1.2 percentage points to 77.7%, mainly reflecting a decrease in cost
of sales as the development of a large-scale project recorded in the previous
fiscal year came to a close. Looking more closely at the breakdown of changes in the number
of subscribing restaurants, the number of new subscribing restaurants increased
by 5 from the previous fiscal year-end to 249 and the number of new restaurants
opened by existing customers increased by 19 to 538, with both of these
increases continuing at the previous fiscal year’s pace. On the other hand,
there were large decreases in the number of restaurants closed by existing
customers, which decreased by 113 from the previous fiscal year-end to 266, and
the number of restaurants cancelling their subscriptions, which decreased by 99
to 22. These large decreases greatly contributed to the higher net increase in
the number of subscribing restaurants. Notably, in regard to the number of
restaurants cancelling their subscriptions, the Company benefited from efforts
to actively establish contact with existing customers and upgrade its support
framework as part of a change in sales policy instituted in the previous fiscal
year.The growth rate for net sales
edged up by only 1.5% compared with an increase of around 12% in the number of
subscribing restaurants from the previous fiscal year-end. This was mainly due
to the impact of lower ARPU. The main factor at play was a tendency for new
corporate subscribers to have a lower ARPU. To halt this decline in ARPU and
restore ARPU to a growth trajectory, the Company has started taking steps to
propose new value-added services. Specifically, the Company has
started to provide new optimization services for public utility fees from the
second half of FY1/14 This service assesses whether an existing customer has
entered into public utility contracts under optimal terms and conditions, such
as by determining whether electricity fees are appropriate relative to actual
electricity consumption. The assessment is then used as a basis for proposing
an optimal menu of contracts and other improvements that help to reduce public
utility expenses. The assessment is carried out by a specialist consulting firm
that is an alliance partner of the Company. For JUST PLANNING, the primary goal
of this service is to encourage client companies to subscribe to additional
JUST PLANNING services by reducing their public utility expenses. The service
in itself is not seen as a means to increase net sales. In FY1/14 the Company actually
conducted an electricity cost optimization assessment for a corporate client
that operates 50 restaurants. Through the assessment, the Company helped the
corporate client to achieve electricity cost savings of \6mn on an annualized
basis. At the same time, the Company successfully won an additional
subscription to the Makasete Net attendance management service from this
customer. Incidentally, the targeted customers for the electricity cost
assessment service are restaurants with roadside locations that have contracted
directly with electric, gas and other utilities. ○System Solution
Business In the System Solution Business, net sales and gross profit both
decreased sharply. Net sales were \85mn, down 59.0% yoy, and gross profit was
\25mn, down 51.3% yoy. The main factors were continued declines in the selling
prices of devices and other equipment, along with the absence of a large
project recorded in the previous fiscal year. The gross margin increased by 4.7
percentage points to 29.3%, mainly due to a decrease in the ratio of devices
and other equipment purchased from third parties for sale to customers.○Logistics Solution
Business The Logistics Solution
Business delivered a strong performance. Net sales were \813mn, up 15.2% yoy,
and gross profit was \119mn, up 16.6% yoy. Faced with a challenging operating
environment, the restaurant industry has been moving to outsource logistics
operations as part of cost-cutting measures. By capturing this demand for
outsourcing services, this business segment performed well in terms of net
sales and earnings. However, the gross margin stood at the 14% level, which was
relatively low among the Company’s business segments. In response, plans call
for increasing the number of subscribers to the Logi Logi System, an ASP
service developed in-house. As of the previous fiscal year-end, the Logi Logi
System had approximately 400 subscribing restaurants.○Others Business In the Others Business, net
sales were \46mn, up 74.3% yoy and gross profit was \23mn, up 429.3% yoy. The
main factor behind the higher net sales and earnings was the contribution of a
golf bar (Fukuoka Prefecture) acquired in October 2014. In the solar power
generation business, the Company had planned to start solar power generation
operations in the Nasu area in January 2015. However, because the start of
these operations was postponed to February, the Company was unable to record
net sales in this business in FY1/15. Financial indicators of both
profitability and stability remain strong (3) Financial condition and
key financial indicators Looking at the Company’s financial condition as of January 31, 2015, total assets were
\2,834mn, down \207mn from the previous fiscal year-end. The main factor at
play was a decrease of \1,038mn in cash and deposits from the previous fiscal
year-end. This decrease was partly offset by an increase of \360mn in property,
plant and equipment associated with the construction of solar power generation
facilities in the Nasu area, as well as an increase of \350mn in investment
securities, mainly consisting of bond investment trusts. Total liabilities were \349mn, down \403mn from the previous
fiscal year-end. This decline was mainly due to decreases of \200mn in
short-term loans payable and \370mn in income taxes payable. In addition, net
assets were \2,485mn, an increase of \196mn from the previous fiscal year-end.
The main factor was an increase of \137mn in retained earnings.Turning to key financial indicators, both the current ratio and
the equity ratio, which are indicators of financial stability, remained at high
levels. The current ratio was 499.8%, while the equity ratio was 86.2%. This
shows that the Company has maintained a sufficiently high level of financial
soundness. Looking at profitability indicators, the Company has maintained a
stable operating margin of around 20% and an ROA of around 15%. Therefore, the
Company is to be commended for its high degree of both profitability and
stability. The only concern is the Company’s growth potential, which has been
impacted by lackluster operating income. Restoring operating income to a growth
trajectory will be a key management priority going forward.◆Financial forecasts Drive earnings growth at a
faster pace, supported by positive tailwinds in the market environment
surrounding the Company (1) Financial forecasts for
FY1/16 In terms of consolidated financial forecasts for FY1/16, the
Company expects to drive faster growth in the current fiscal year. Net sales
are projected at \2,200mn, up 18.8% yoy and operating income is forecast at
\515mn, up 16.0% yoy. Ordinary income is forecast at \515mn, up 24.6% yoy, and
net income for the year is forecast at \309mn, up 40.1% yoy. The projected
growth in net sales and earnings will be driven by the expansion of the ASP
business, mainly supported by the launch of the Makasete Touch service in
earnest, as well as the Logistics Solution Business and the newly launched
solar power generation business. Ordinary income and net income are both
projected to increase faster than the growth rate for operating income. The
faster projected growth in ordinary income and net income is mainly based on
anticipated improvements in equity-method investment income (losses) and
extraordinary income (losses), respectively.As the Japanese economy continues to gradually recover, the
restaurant industry has seen a rebound in the overall number of restaurants,
and the market environment surrounding the Company has started to gradually
benefit from positive tailwinds. Although competition remains fierce, the
Company’s strategy is to drive earnings growth at a faster pace. This will be
done by boosting ARPU through the roll-out of new services, along with
harnessing support capabilities where the Company has long been strong. In
addition, the Company will develop new customers by upgrading and expanding
sales channels through such means as business alliances.Targeting an increase in
monthly usage fees of \10mn from the previous fiscal year-end in the ASP
Business (2) Forecasts by business
segment ○ASP Business In the ASP Business, the
Company is targeting an increase in monthly usage fees of \10mn, from just over
\74mn as of January 31, 2015 to \84mn plus by January 31, 2016. This target
should be reached by driving growth in ARPU from existing customers and
increasing the number of customers. This projected increase breaks down into an
increase of \3mn from driving growth in ARPU from existing customers and an
increase of \7mn from winning new customers. As a result, full-year net sales
are anticipated to increase by around \120mn. To drive growth in ARPU from
existing customers, the Company will introduce the Makasete Touch service in
earnest, in addition to taking further steps to market the aforementioned
optimization assessment service for public utility fees. And to develop new
customers, the Company plans to proactively win new customers by taking full
advantage of the sales channels of its corporate business alliance partners, in
parallel with conventional measures to develop new customers. In December 2014, JUST
PLANNING announced a business alliance with Seiko Solutions Inc., a major
provider of information systems for the restaurant industry. As part of this
alliance, the Company is scheduled to provide Seiko Solutions with the POS
service functions of oishino, which is the latter company’s new POS ordering service. Seiko Solutions positions oishino as
a service for small restaurant chains and individual restaurants. The service
is intended to help Seiko Solutions develop new customers among these types of
restaurants. In April 2015, Seiko Solutions launched the oishino service in
earnest, with the aim of introducing the service to 2,000 restaurants in the
first fiscal year of sales. Please note that the POS service for Seiko
Solutions has not been factored into the Company’s forecasts for FY1/16. In regard to developing new
customers for Makasete Net, the positive effects of developing new customers
generally do not become immediately apparent, with the exception of newly
established restaurant businesses, because the timing for winning new customers
coincides with subscription renewals every four to five years. In contrast, the
Company has the potential to make rapid progress on developing new customers
for the Makasete Touch service because this service can be introduced anytime,
starting with a single restaurant. Accordingly, the Company’s strategy is to develop new customers at a faster pace by
continuing to proactively form business alliances and expand its sales
channels. Specifically, the Company will partner with payment service companies
and other firms that have strong business relationships with individual
restaurants and small- and medium-sized restaurant chains, with a view to
increasing sales of Makasete Touch. Currently, ARPU for Makasete Net is just under the \20,000
level. For a full-service subscription, the ARPU per restaurant for Makasete
Touch is also just under \20,000. Accordingly, higher sales of Makasete Touch
will have a sizable positive impact. In addition, progress on introducing
Makasete Touch to existing customers will also help to drive growth in ARPU.In other areas, in April 2015,
the Company introduced Makasete Net at overseas restaurants for the first time
and began operating the service abroad. Specifically, Makasete Net was
introduced at the restaurants of a client company that entered Thailand, with
service delivery made possible by contracting support to a local partner
company. There are no other ASP services for small and medium-sized restaurant
enterprises in Japan that are able to provide a shared service to overseas
restaurants. (This is due to the lack of an overseas support framework.) We
believe that this factor will set JUST PLANNING apart from the competition in
the future. Moreover, as a value-added
service, the Company is jointly trialing a big data-driven service together
with a major IT systems company. Specifically, the trials are part of efforts
to develop a service that will help to increase the net sales of restaurants
while reducing their costs primarily through the analysis of social media.
There are no plans to charge a fee for the service itself, which will be
provided within the scope of existing services. However, if the service is
successfully developed, it is particularly noteworthy that the service will
help to bolster the competitiveness of the Company’s services. Furthermore, in response to
recent increases in overseas visitors to Japan, the Company is currently
developing services that will display restaurant food menus in multiple
languages and enable customers to view food menus and place orders via their
smartphones. It is also developing a restaurant referral service for overseas
visitors, among other services. By leveraging the Wi-Fi infrastructure
development expertise and other resources of alliance partner FON, the Company
intends to launch these services as early as possible. ○System Solution
Business In the System Solution
Business, as the selling prices of devices and other equipment continue to
decline, business performance is expected to remain on a par with FY1/16. ○Logistics Solution
Business In the Logistics Solution Business,
the Company is projecting net sales of \1,000mn, a year-on-year increase of 20%
plus. This growth is being spurred by the positive tailwind of increased
outsourcing of logistics operations. On the earnings front, the Company is
projecting continued double-digit increases in profits. As part of efforts to
enhance profitability, the Company plans to bolster sales of the Logi Logi
System, an ASP service developed in-house. ○Others Business In the Others Business, the Company expects the launch of solar
power generation operations to spur higher net sales and earnings, contributing
around \55-60mn to net sales and \25mn to operating income. In this business,
the Company has constructed solar power stations at two separate sites in
Tochigi Prefecture at a total cost of around \500mn: an 800 kWh station in
Nasushiobara City and a 900 kWh station in Nasu Town. The Company started
operations at the 800 kWh station and the 900 kWh station on February 3 and
March 27, 2015, respectively. The power sales price is \36/W at both stations.
The power sales revenues of the power station that became operational in
February surpassed expectations by reaching \1.90mn in the first 20 days, marking
a steady start. Considering that solar power generation is highly susceptible
to weather conditions, the Company has incorporated a conservative outlook for
the solar power generation business in its forecasts. Assuming that weather
conditions are in line with yearly norms, the Company believes there is upside
potential for additional power sales revenues of around \5mn-\10mn. With no
further plans to construct any new solar power stations, the solar power
generation business will comprise the aforementioned two solar power stations
only.◆Shareholder Return Policy Dividends could be increased
depending on a decline in the dividend payout ratio due to future earnings
growth The Company’s basic shareholder return policy is to return profits to
shareholders through dividends. In regard to dividends, the Company plans to
maintain steady dividends, while ensuring an adequate level of internal
reserves to fund future business expansion and to strengthen its business
foundations. The annual dividend for FY1/15 was \18.0 per share, down \2 from
\20.0 per share in FY1/14. The decline reflects the previous fiscal year’s payment of a commemorative dividend of \2.0 to mark the
Company’s 20th founding anniversary. In FY1/16,
the Company is forecasting an annual dividend of \18.0 per share. In FY1/16,
the dividend payout ratio is projected at 24.5%, falling below 30% for the
first time in the past few years with the exception of FY1/14, when an
extraordinary gain was recorded. Accordingly, the dividend could be increased
in FY1/16 provided that the Company’s
business performance exceeds its plans. Incidentally, the Company currently owns treasury stock
representing 31.5% of the total number of shares issued. As for the handling of
this treasury stock, the Company is considering holding the shares as treasury
stock in the near term, as well as using the shares to provide stock options to
employees. 報告內容僅供參考，不得作為任何投資引用之唯一依據，且其投資風險及決定應由投資人自行判斷並自負損益。