Nagaileben(JP-7447)TokyoStockExchangeFirstSectionQ2ResultsSteadyOverall,RemainwithinForecastRange(I)
  2015-05-19 提供機構：FISCO 作者：FISCO 點閱次數：11   

Nagaileben Co., Ltd.
<7447> (hereafter, “Nagaileben” or “the Company”) is the leading manufacturer of medical gowns in Japan, with a
domestic market share of over 60%. In the consolidated business results for Q2
FY8/15 (September 2014 – February 2015) announced by
the Company, sales amounted to \6,840mn, a 1.0% increase year on year (“y-o-y”); operating profit amounted
to \1,797mn, a 1.9% decrease y-o-y; recurring profit amounted to \2,033mn, a
5.6% increase y-o-y; and net profit amounted to \1,302mn, a 3.0% increase
y-o-y. Production costs increased due to the yen’s depreciation, driving operating profit lower y-o-y; however,
profits increased from the recurring profit line downward owing to a U.S.
dollar deposit foreign exchange hedge. Since the company usually experiences
lower sales and profit through the first half of the fiscal year, the result is
not a cause for concern. In its full-year business
results for FY8/15, the current fiscal year, the Company expects to achieve:
\16,700mn in sales, a 3% increase y-o-y; \4,931mn in operating profit, a 0.2%
increase y-o-y; \5,058mn in recurring profit, a 1.1 decrease y-o-y; and
\3,187mn in net profit, a 1.1% increase y-o-y. The forecasts for operating
profit and net profit have been revised downward slightly from the initial
forecast, while the forecast for recurring profit has been revised upward.
However, in all cases the revisions are minor, and no cause for concern. The company announced a new Mid-Term Management Plan, (numerical
targets: sales of \17,500mn and operating profit of \5,300mn by FY8/17), and
these targets have not changed. The Company plans to achieve these goals by
expanding overseas production and strengthening its high-margin advanced
functionality product range. Furthermore, the Company is taking a positive
stance on shareholder returns, having already conducted a share buy-back of
approximately 1.0mn shares (\1,500mn) in FY8/15 through a takeover bid (TOB).
As a result, combined with the forecast dividend (\50 annual) the total return
ratio for FY8/15 is expected to reach around 100%. This is certainly worthy of
note.◆Company Profile Leading medical gown
manufacturer with a share of over 60% of the domestic market for medical gowns
for nurses (1) Description of businesses Nagaileben is a specialist manufacturer of medical gowns for
nurses, doctors, patients and others. Established in 1915 as Nagai Shoten, the
Company has a rich history. Since then, it has expanded its operations
nationally to become a leading domestic manufacturer with a share of over 60%
of the market for medical gowns for nurses.●Sales Breakdown All of the Company’s products are medical gowns
and related products. The sales contribution by item (FY8/14) is healthcare
wear 58.2%, doctor’s wear 16.5%, surgical wear
9.4%, patient wear 8.3%, utility wear 4.6%, shoes 1.5% and other products 1.5%.
Healthcare wear consists of products mainly for nurses and carers, and utility
wear consists of aprons, cardigans, and other items worn as outer garments.
Profit margins for each item do not vary significantly; however, the profit
margins of purchased products, such as shoes, are relatively lower.In terms of sales contribution by region, eastern Japan accounts
for 52.2%, western Japan 36.0%, central Japan 10.8%, and overseas 1.0%. While
coverage is nationwide, sales in central Japan and abroad remain low,
indicating potential for future expansion.In terms of sales contribution by product (function),
advanced-function products made up 48.1%, standard-function products 39.9%,
mass-produced products 6.3%, and DC brand products 5.8%. As an example, in
nursing wear products, when classified by price range, mass-produced products
are under ¥5,000, standard-function products are ¥5,000-7,500, advanced-function products are ¥7,500-10,000, and DC brand products are over ¥10,000; the higher the price, the greater the profit margin.●Sales channels and
production status The company’s end users include nurses,
carers and doctors, with the purchasers of the products being mainly medical
facilities such as hospitals, nursing care facilities and others. However, the
company does not conduct direct sales, with 100% being agency sales via medical
equipment wholesalers that trade with these medical and other facilities. As a
result, direct sales expenses are contained; however, as sales staff is
constantly in contact with large hospitals and other facilities, the company
understands customers’ needs.In most cases, medical gowns
are laundered within the hospitals by the hospitals themselves, but in recent
years they have been switching to leasing. The lease term is typically four
years. Because this generates lease switching demand every four years, it seems
to provide stable support for the company’s earnings. Looking at the company’s production structure, based on FY8/14 performance, 97.4% of
its products are manufactured in-house (domestic production: 54.3%, overseas
production: 43.1%) and 2.6% are purchased products. Overseas production is
predominantly in Indonesia, but the company owns no factories and the goods are
produced at factories of local partners, which mitigates investment risk and
reduces costs. System for integrated
operations from planning through to raw material procurement, manufacture and
sales is a key strength (2) Distinctive
characteristics and strength The company is a specialized manufacturer
of medical gowns, and one of its strengths is that it has in place systems to
undertake everything from design to raw material procurement, manufacturing and
sales. In its product planning, it can accurately understand customer needs and
reflect them in its products. Specifically, the company works with major
synthetic fiber manufacturers, such as Toray <3402> to develop functional
textiles, including antibacterial, anti-static, industrial washable
specification (reduced cost) textiles. It also supplies products of excellent
design, which have earned a good reputation from its users. At the same time,
it also incorporates overseas production, enabling it to sell its products at
an appropriate margin. Furthermore, in addition to
its large number of affiliated factories, the company has the necessary
financial resources to be able to constantly maintain product item inventories
that extend into the thousands of varieties, while also being able to swiftly
respond to a broad range of user needs, including for made-to-order products,
through a rapid production and sales system (the Quick Response system) that
delivers the desired product on a specified day. This has also helped it to
earn strong trust from its customers. On the sales side, it has a network of
close to 1,000 agents nationwide, and while its sales capabilities are robust,
the company itself controls its sales expenses as much as possible. As a result, the company’s share of the domestic market for medical gowns for nurses
exceeds 60%, and it maintains a firm position as the leading medical gown
manufacturer in Japan. Additionally, it has maintained profitability with a
gross margin of 46.8% (actual results for FY8/14). The fact that it is both
highly profitable and has a high market share means that most of its customers
are satisfied with its products and services, which is the company’s greatest strength. By concentrating its business resources in the niche market of
medical gowns, the company can efficiently manage everything from design to
manufacturing and sales. Moreover, although it is a niche market, room for
further development remains, as it has relatively low market shares for patient
wear, surgical wear and other items. The company has explicitly stated that the
medical gown business could grow for some time and it will move aggressively to
develop peripheral markets. 報告內容僅供參考，不得作為任何投資引用之唯一依據，且其投資風險及決定應由投資人自行判斷並自負損益。