HEIWAREALESTATECO.,LTD.(JP-8803)TokyoStockExchangeFirstSectionLeadingleaserofofficeandcommercialbuildingsnowredevelopingTokyo’ssecuritiesbusinesscenterofNihonbashiKabutocho
  2015-07-07 提供機構：FISCO 作者：FISCO 點閱次數：12   

Heiwa
Real Estate Co., Ltd. (8803) started by developing office buildings in Japan’s
main cities and leasing these buildings to stock exchanges, including those in
Tokyo, Osaka, and Nagoya. It now develops office buildings primarily, but also
commercial buildings and residential buildings, in Japan’s major cities, and
leases, sells, manages and operates these buildings. In the fiscal year ended
March 2015, FY3/15, it derived 56.4% of its total consolidated operating
revenue from leasing and 36.9% from real estate solutions. The
company owns many buildings in Japan’s larger cities, primarily in financial
districts, and many of these buildings are entirely leased. Therefore, the
vacancy rates of its leased buildings are lower than the vacancy rates for
leased buildings in general, excluding buildings that the company has stopped
leasing for redevelopment purposes, and its leasing fees are on par with market
rates. The real estate solutions business is conducted by the Heiwa Real Estate
group and Heiwa Real Estate REIT, Inc. (8966) and generates stable management
fees. There
were some positive and some negative developments at the company during FY3/15.
On the plus side, consolidated operating income increased YoY, reflecting
factors such as an increase in the price of buildings sold in the real estate
solutions business, and the company’s financial position improved. On the minus
side, the company’s net income fell YoY, due to a net extraordinary loss
stemming from the disposals for redevelopment. The company’s forecasts for
FY3/16 also contain positive and negative elements. The Nihonbashi Kabutocho Revitalization Project is the
centerpiece of the company’s growth strategy. This project was launched in
earnest in 2011, and the company has been acquiring properties in the area, and
liaising with the Council on Urban Development for Investment and Economic
Growth, and government officials to promote it. On June 15, 2015, part
of the area that the company is redeveloping was designated as an urban
redevelopment project within a National Strategic Economic Growth Area in
Greater Tokyo. Phase I of the company’s project is scheduled for completion in
2019, so we look forward to the company’s announcement of a detailed plan for
redevelopment.◆Company Outline Originated as a real estate
developer and leaser to Japan’s securities industry (1) History Heiwa
Real Estate was established in 1947 to develop and lease buildings to
securities exchanges and securities companies. That year, Japan’s previous 11
securities exchanges forming the Japan Securities Exchange, which was partly
private and partly public, was dissolved and replaced with new exchanges that
used the old exchanges’ assets as in-kind investments. Subsequently, the
company increased its leased assets by developing or acquiring office buildings
and expanded the scope of its business to include asset management and home
development. Today, it has six consolidated subsidiaries. Core
leasing business and real estate solutions business coordinating with REIT form
two main businesses (2)
Business overview Two
main businesses, leasing and real estate solutions, provided 93.3% of total
operating revenue and almost all operating income in FY3/15 The leasing business owns about ¥218.7bn of assets for lease,
including securities exchange buildings, office buildings, commercial
facilities, and housing, in Japan’s main cities, including Tokyo, Osaka,
Nagoya, Fukuoka, Sapporo, and Sendai. Many of these buildings are in the
securities industry centers of Nihonbashi Kabutocho in Tokyo, Kitahama in
Osaka, and Sakae in Nagoya. Leasing is the company’s main business, supplying
56.4% of its total operating revenue and 89.1% of its total operating income
before eliminations in FY3/15.The real estate solutions business has four sub-divisions or
sources of revenue and income: a) management fees, b) revenue and income from
developed real estate, c) brokerage commissions, and d) housing development.
Management fees are earned by consolidated subsidiary Heiwa Real Estate Asset
Management Co., Ltd., which operates assets received from Heiwa Real Estate
REIT, Inc., a non-consolidated unit listed on the Tokyo Stock Exchange in 2005.
Management fee income increases as the amount of assets under management expands.
Revenue and income from developed real estate stems mainly from the sales of
real estate to Heiwa Real Estate REIT, Inc. Sales tend to fluctuate annually,
but because properties are usually sold soon after being acquired, the
operating income from these sales varies less than sales. Brokerage fees are
collected on all real estate transactions conducted by the company. The housing
development business constructs condominium buildings and sells the units of
these buildings. This business has a short operating cycle. In FY3/15, the real
estate solutions business provided 36.9% of the company’s total operating
revenue and 21.0% of its total operating income before eliminations.Leasing market is improving,
company develops prominent business areas (3) Leasing market environment
and company’s leasing business model Japan’s leasing market has been improving. The average vacancy
rate of office buildings in the five central commercial wards of Tokyo (Chuo,
Chiyoda, Minato, Shinjuku, and Shibuya) fell from 9.2% in March 2011 to 4.7% in
March 2015, while the average leasing fee in these wards climbed from ¥16,325
per tsubo (3.3 square meters) in March 2014 to ¥17,195 per tsubo in March 2015.
The average vacancy rate of office buildings leased in Greater Tokyo by Heiwa
Real Estate was 4.4% in March 2015 but, excluding buildings the company had
stopped leasing to redevelop, this vacancy rate was only 1.4%, far below the
market average vacancy rate. This low vacancy rate is due to the company’s
practice of leasing many of its buildings as a unit. The company’s average
leasing fee for its buildings in Greater Tokyo is about the same as the average
leasing fee in the five central business wards of Tokyo.Heiwa Real Estate owns buildings leased to securities exchanges
in Tokyo, Osaka, Nagoya, Fukuoka and other main cities of Japan, as well as
office buildings in the same areas as the exchanges. The company manages its
building portfolio by purchasing new buildings and replacing some older
buildings, but in general, it has increased the size of its portfolio. At the
end of FY3/15, fixed assets in its leasing business amounted to ¥215.5bn.
Furthermore, the prices of leasing assets have been rising. Thus, the
unrealized gains on its real estate holdings grew to ¥41.7bn at the end of
March 2015 from ¥26.4bn at the end of March 2014.In developing buildings for lease, Heiwa Real Estate considers
an entire area, not a single building. Because its buildings are concentrated
in the financial districts of leading cities, it excels at developing prominent
business areas. For example, in the Sakae area of Nagoya, where it owns the
Nagoya Stock Exchange Bldg., the company redeveloped buildings near the
exchange over the 10 years from 2004, thereby enhancing the cityscape and
increasing the floor area of all buildings leased in the area from 11,300m2 to
39,700m2. Its leasing revenue from the area grew accordingly. Hereafter, the
company plans to redevelop the Nihonbashi Kabutocho district of Tokyo and other
urban areas.Value chain strategy includes
the group’s real estate investment trust company (4) Business model for real
estate solutions The company’s basic strategy for real estate solutions is to
build a value chain that encompasses its entire group, including Heiwa Real
Estate REIT, Inc. (listed on the Tokyo Stock Exchange in 2005). As a sponsor of
Heiwa Real Estate REIT, Inc., Heiwa Real Estate buys buildings, raises their
value, by lowering their vacancy rates, for example, then sells the buildings
to Heiwa Real Estate REIT, Inc. This real estate investment trust company then
transfers most of its assets to Heiwa Real Estate Asset Management to manage.
As its supply of high-quality buildings increases, the asset management
company, a consolidated subsidiary, earns increasing management fees,
completing a cycle of organic growth for Heiwa Real Estate. Heiwa Real Estate
REIT, Inc. concentrates its investment on office and residential buildings in
the wards of Tokyo, and its business has been growing in recent years, but its
results are not included in Heiwa Real Estate’s consolidated results.◆Business Trends FY3/15 operating income grew
6.1% YoY, ordinary income rose 16.4%, both exceeding company forecasts (1) FY3/15 Results In FY3/15, consolidated operating revenue fell 20.6% YoY to
¥34,347mn, but operating income increased 6.1% to ¥8,548mn, and ordinary income
grew 16.4% to ¥6,568mn, while net income dropped 14.0% to ¥2,495mn. Total
operating revenue was only 4.6% less than the company had forecast and its
decline was due mainly to a large drop in revenue in the real estate solutions
business, primarily reflecting a drop in the number of properties sold.
Operating and ordinary incomes surpassed the company’s forecasts, mainly
because the prices of properties sold by the real estate solutions business
increased more than the company had projected. The YoY decline in net income
was due mainly to two extraordinary losses, one on the sale of properties being
redeveloped for the Nihonbashi Kabutocho project, the other a valuation loss on
the company’s investment in a special purpose corporation.Net income projected to rise
even as the company expedites the formation of a growth base (2) Company Forecasts for
FY3/16 For
FY3/16, the company forecasts a 12.1% YoY rise in consolidated operating
revenue to ¥38.5bn, an 18.1% drop in operating income to ¥7.0bn, a 23.9% fall
in ordinary income to ¥5.0bn, but an 8.2% increase in net income to ¥2.7bn. The
company foresees an increase in operating revenue in the real estate solutions
business stemming from an upturn in the number of properties sold. This is the
main factor it expects to lift overall operating revenue. However, the overall
operating revenue forecast is low, considering the historical trend of this
revenue. From FY3/16, the company’s revenue from leasing the Tokyo Stock
Exchange Bldg. is scheduled to decrease by about ¥1.2bn per year, and this
decrease is the main reason that the company projects declines in its operating
and ordinary incomes. However, the company does not foresee extraordinary
losses in FY3/16 comparable to those in FY3/15, so it anticipates a rise in net
income. The company’s focus in FY3/16 will be expediting the formation of a
foundation for growth over the medium-to-long term. Strengthening
its financial base (3)
Financial Position The
company’s financial position improved in FY3/15. Its current assets decreased
by ¥14,292mn to ¥31,534mn at the end of the fiscal year, mainly because the
company reduced its balance of marketable securities by ¥9,554mn and its cash
and deposits by ¥2,106mn to purchase more assets for lease and to reduce its
interest-bearing debt and strengthen the company’s financial base. Fixed assets
grew by ¥15,078mn to ¥265,767mn, primarily because tangible fixed assets
increased by ¥9,211mn, reflecting purchases of land and buildings. Total liabilities decreased by ¥5,406mn to ¥205,438mn, the
result of a ¥9,066mn fall in current liabilities, and a ¥3,660mn rise in fixed
liabilities, resulting from efforts to strengthen the company’s financial base.Measures of financial stability and profitability were basically
unchanged YoY in FY3/15. Since the collapse of Lehman Brothers in September
2008, the company has been reducing its interest-bearing debt and lowering its
ratio of gross debt to equity as part of its efforts to improve its financial
condition.◆Growth Strategy Building a base in
FY3/15–FY3/17 for growth through FY3/24 (1) Medium-to-long-term
Management Plan FY3/15 was the first year of the company’s current
medium-to-long-term management plan, called “over the NEXT DECADE”, which ends in
FY3/24. In FY3/15–FY3/17, the company will concentrate on building a foundation
for future growth, so it does not foresee strong income growth during those
three years. When it announced this plan, on April 30, 2014, it targeted
operating income of ¥7.4bn for FY3/15, ¥6.9bn for FY3/16, ¥7.2bn for FY3/17,
and at least ¥10.0bn for FY3/24. It did not announce operating revenue targets
because this revenue varies substantially depending on sales of properties. In
FY3/15, the company surpassed its targets, earning an operating income of
¥8.5bn, against the ¥7.4bn target, an ordinary income of ¥6.5bn, versus the
goal of ¥5.0bn, and a gross debt-to-equity ratio of 1.8 times, lower than the
objective of 1.9 times. As mentioned above, the company now projects an operating
income of ¥7.0bn for FY3/16.The company’s main strategy for its leasing business is to
promote the Nihonbashi Kabuto-cho Revitalization Project, while its main
strategy for its real estate solutions business is to support the growth of
Heiwa Real Estate REIT, Inc. and thereby expand its management fee business.Project is progressing
smoothly, and detailed development plan is pending (2) Nihonbashi Kabuto-cho
Revitalization Project This
project is part of the Tokyo Global Financial Center plan being pursued by the
Tokyo Metropolitan Government. For the project, Heiwa Real Estate plans to
construct new buildings and thereby expand its leasing assets, revenue and
income. It originated the project as part of its corporate vision of
contributing to urban revitalization in areas with similar issues. Nihonbashi
Kabutocho is the center of the securities industry in Tokyo, housing the Tokyo
Stock Exchange, many other buildings owned by Heiwa Real Estate, and the
company’s main office. The area is within walking distance of Tokyo Station, is
served by five subway lines, is close to the business districts of Nihonbashi,
Otemachi and Marunouchi, and has easy access to both of Tokyo’s international
airports, Haneda and Narita. However, there are many old buildings in
Nihonbashi Kabutocho now, reflecting several factors. Since the 1990 collapse
of Japan’s stock market bubble of 1986–1989, Japan’s economy has remained weak,
its securities industry has consolidated and shrunk, surviving securities
companies have relocated, and stock transactions have been totally automated.
About 100,000 square meters of Nihonbashi Kabutocho are targeted for
redevelopment. In the decade from 2014 to 2023, Heiwa Real Estate plans to
redevelop the Kabutocho project and the Kayabacho project, which both front
onto Heisei Dori avenue. In April 2015, the Council on Urban Development for Investment
and Economic Growth presented an interim report calling for the redevelopment
of Nihonbashi Kabutocho as an area where financiers, mainly asset managers, can
thrive. It is to become a neighborhood where financiers, financial venture
companies, primarily involved in asset management, and providers of specialized
financial services can develop, congregate, and interact with listed companies.
The area should encompass hotels, residences, an investor forum hall, and
entertainment facilities for practitioners of advanced finance, including
non-Japanese personnel. A detailed plan is likely to be produced soon.Since 2011, when Heiwa Real
Estate launched the Nihonbashi Kabuto-cho Revitalization Project in earnest,
the company has been buying old buildings in the area. In May 2015, it bought
the Kayabacho Kyodo Building, which is well situated in Kabutocho. The company
has also been meeting regularly with the Council on Urban Development for
Investment and Economic Growth are Produced and with government
representatives. On June 15, 2015, the district commission for National
Strategic Economic Growth Area in Greater Tokyo designated as an urban redevelopment
project the Nihonbashi Kabutocho and Kayabacho 1-chome area, which is part of
the area the company is redeveloping. Support
for an increase in assets at Heiwa Real Estate REIT, Inc. and an improvement in
the quality of these assets (3)
Increase fee businesses, primarily the asset management business While expanding the assets of Heiwa Real Estate REIT, Inc., the
company plans to expedite its strategies to increase the revenue and income of
its entire group. In FY3/13, the company supplied ¥6.1bn of properties to Heiwa
Real Estate REIT, Inc. This supply rose to ¥9.5bn in FY3/14 and remained high
at ¥9.1bn in FY3/15. As a result, the balance of assets under management at
Heiwa Real Estate Asset Management has grown steadily, increasing by ¥7.37bn in
FY3/15 to ¥155.03bn, and the management fee income of this company has climbed.
In FY3/15, management fee income came to ¥1,237mn. Although this was a small
portion of total operating revenue, this income is highly profitable, so its
contribution to overall income is significant. Accompanying the growth of Heiwa
Real Estate REIT, Inc., the dividends per unit paid by this company have risen
steadily. For the six-month fiscal period to May 2015, it plans to pay
dividends per unit of ¥1,742, which would be ¥72 more than the dividends it
paid for the six-month fiscal period to May 2014.The company’s price-to-book ratio (PBR) of 0.73 times at the end
of FY3/15 is lower than the average PBR of listed Japanese real estate
companies. The company foresees little profit growth for the next couple of
years, but when it releases a detailed plan for the redevelopment of the
Nihonbashi Kabutocho area, its growth potential will become clearer, and its
share price may well rise.◆Shareholder Return Policy Maintaining dividends of ¥22
per share, 30% dividend payout ratio Although the company needs to retain funds for its Nihonbashi
Kabuto-cho Revitalization Project, it intends to maintain a dividend payout
ratio of 30%. For FY3/15, it paid interim dividends of ¥11 per share and
year-end dividends of ¥11 for full-term dividends of ¥22. For FY3/16, it plans
to pay the same dividends. 報告內容僅供參考，不得作為任何投資引用之唯一依據，且其投資風險及決定應由投資人自行判斷並自負損益。