TOKAICorp.(JP-9729)TokyoStockExchangeFirstSectionTowardfurthergrowthasan“comprehensivehealthcarecompany”contributingtoan“IntegratedCommunityCareSystem”
  2015-07-17 提供機構：FISCO 作者：FISCO 點閱次數：11   

TOKAI Corp. (9729) (hereafter,
“the Company”)’s three main businesses are
Healthcare Services, Pharmacy Services, and Environmental Services. While
contributing to Japan’s aging society in the fields
of healthcare and environment, management aims to achieve consolidated sales of
\110bn and recurring profit of \8.5bn. In FY3/15, the Company
recorded consolidated net sales of \98,159mn, up 3.1% y-o-y and recurring
profit of \7,338mn, up 1.3% y-o-y and thus achieved increases in both sales and
profit. All of its three main businesses enlarged, with net sales having
increased for a sixth consecutive year achieving a record high. Also, it
recorded two straight years of operating profit increase thanks to a sales
increase in spite of increases in manpower costs associated with strengthening
its sales capabilities and in materials costs for rental products associated
with new customer acquisition. Forecast of consolidated
financial results for FY3/16 is for net sales of \102,711mn, up 4.6% y-o-y and
recurring profit of \7,055mn, down 3.9% y-o-y. While sales are expected to
basically continue to increase benefiting from Japan’s aging population, profit is estimated to go down due to a
profit fall for Dispensing Pharmacy Services due to a special cause as well as
expenses for the 60th anniversary events and an increase in expenses for human
resource development for the purpose of ensuring workforces. In Japan, an “Integrated Community Care System” is advocated as a national policy in the midst of yearly
increases in social security costs such as medical/nursing care costs. Under
such circumstances the Company, which operates businesses in both fields of
medical care and nursing care as Hospital Services*1, SILVER Services*2 and Dispensing Pharmacy Services, is
expected to further grow through enhancing collaboration among its business
domains as an “comprehensive healthcare company.” To its shareholders, the Company intends to pay a dividend of
\39.0 per share for FY3/16, same as for the previous FY, making a dividend
payout ratio of 15.6%. Since the current FY marks the Company’s 60th anniversary, management may pay additionally a
commemorative dividend if it achieves an increased profit exceeding its plan.◆Business Description Core Drivers of Healthcare Services are Hospital Services
and SILVER Services. With its head office in Gifu Prefecture, the Company focuses on
health-related and environmental services through its three main businesses of
Healthcare Services, Pharmacy Services and Environmental Services. As shown in
the bar chart below, the Healthcare Services and Pharmacy Services provided
about 90% of total consolidated sales and total consolidated operating profit
before company-wide expenses in FY3/15, and this has been the case for the past
several fiscal years.(1) Healthcare Services The Healthcare Services includes Hospital Services (linen
supply, nursing assistance, and distribution management within hospitals), the
SILVER Services (rental and sales of equipment for the care of the elderly),
the Food Supply (for medical institutions, nursing care facilities), the
manufacture and sale of cleaning equipment, and the production and distribution
of the Aqua Clara brand of bottled water, Japan’s leading brand, as a sub-licensee. These services are described
in the following table.Hospital Services generate
somewhat more than 50% of the sales in Healthcare Services. These services
include the supply of linen to medical and nursing care facilities in the
Kanto, Chubu, Kansai, Chugoku and Shikoku areas of Japan. TOKAI Corp. is the
second-largest provider of hospital linen in Japan, after Watakyu Seimoa, an
unlisted company with nationwide operations and an equity-accounted affiliate
of ITOCHU Corporation (8001). Other Hospital Services provided include
administrative nursing support services, and distribution management within
hospitals. Thus, these services satisfy a wide range of hospital needs as a
one-stop service. The business of SILVER Services
of renting and selling equipment, mainly beds and wheelchairs, provides just
short of 30% of the sales in Healthcare Services. In this service, TOKAI Corp.
ranks second in Japan, behind FRANCE BED HOLDINGS CO., LTD. (7840). At the end
of FY3/15, SILVER Services were provided in the Kanto region and to the west
through 58 branches or offices, 6 maintenance centers, and more than 400
affiliated stores. The Company’s market share in this
business varies by region. In Shikoku, it is relatively high, at 30 – 40%. In the three metropolitan areas of Greater Tokyo, Greater
Osaka and Greater Nagoya, it is about 10%, but rising each year. As TOKAI Corp.
maintains close ties with local care-giving planners, it can offer detailed
services. The Food Supply service prepares
meals for hospitals and nursing care facilities and provides somewhat more than
10% of sales in the Healthcare Services. The cleaning equipment manufacturing
business conducted by subsidiary PUREX Co. holds an approximately 40% share of
the Japanese market for this equipment, ranking it second in the country. Hospital Services and SILVER Services combined account for more
than 80% of sales and more than 90% of profits in Healthcare Services. The
SILVER Services are the most profitable, with a double-digit operating profit
margin.One of the Highest Levels of Profitability in the
Dispensing Pharmacy Industry (2) Pharmacy Services Consolidated subsidiary
Tanpopo Pharmacy Co. operates dispensing pharmacies in the Tokai, Hokuriku,
Kansai and Shikoku areas. This subsidiary has steadily increased the number of
its pharmacies through organic growth. At the end of FY3/15, it operated 115
pharmacies, ranking 11th in sales figures in Japan’s dispensing pharmacy industry. The subsidiary opens new
pharmacies near the entrances of large hospitals to increase operational
efficiency. Consequently, Pharmacy Services maintains an operating profit
margin of about 10%, which is among the highest margins in the industry.
Recently, this business has diversified into home-visiting dispensing of
pharmaceuticals at nursing care facilities for the elderly or at patients’ homes. Franchise Business under the LEASEKIN Brand has Industry’s 2nd-Largest Share (3) Environmental Services The main environmental service
offered is the LEASEKIN service of franchising the sale and rental of mops,
mats, and other cleaning equipment to offices, stores and homes. The LEASEKIN
service has about 1,200 franchisees nationwide. In this service, TOKAI Corp.
ranks second in Japan, after DUSKIN CO., LTD. (4665). Through subsidiaries,
this business also cleans and manages hospitals, facilities for the care of the
aged, and offices, and its solar power business sells solar power systems and
electricity. (4) Other Services Other Services include the provision of management information
as provided by the Company’s consolidated subsidiary
Japan Intelligence Mart.◆Business Trends Second consecutive operating profit increase and sixth
consecutive net sales growth achieving its record high. (1) Overview of consolidated
operating results for FY3/15 In the Company’s consolidated operating results for FY3/15, consolidated sales
were \98,159mn, up 3.1% y-o-y, operating profit was \7,092mn, up 2.0% y-o-y,
recurring profit was \7,338mn, up 1.3% y-o-y, and net profit was \4,586mn, up
28.9% y-o-y. The Company’s core healthcare-related
business performed steadily and all of its segments recorded increases in sales
year-on-year with its net sales having recorded its sixth consecutive year in
growth achieving a record high. In terms of operating profit, the Company
recorded a second consecutive increase despite increases in human resource
development costs for strengthening sales capabilities as well as those in
materials costs for rental products associated with new customer acquisition,
which was attributed to increased net sales covering such cost increases.
Meanwhile, the reason for a very high percentage of 28.9 for net profit
increase y-o-y is that for FY3/14 impairment loss of \1,055mn on Tokyo HQ’s real estate was posted as an extraordinary loss. Business
trends by segment were as follows.Healthcare Services and Pharmacy Services segments,
increase in both sales and profit (2) Performance trends by
segment ○Healthcare Services In Healthcare Services, both sales and profit continued their
increasing trends, as sales grew by 2.5% y-o-y to \48,658mn, and operating profit
rose by 1.5% y-o-y to \4,606mn.Core business-wise, sales in
Hospital Services increased by 3.1% y-o-y, and operating profit advanced by
12.8% y-o-y. The increases were primarily due to a steady rise in the number of
hospital bedding contracts, mainly for nursing care and welfare facilities such
as special nursing homes for the aged, long-term care health facilities as well
as due to strong performances by key products of the “hospitalization set”*
which jumped by
42.5% y-o-y, and of the “NEXSURG.” (reusable operating room linen for hospitals) which advanced by
15.7% y-o-y. In SILVER Services, sales increased 2.4% y-o-y and operating
profit decreased 4.8% y-o-y. The total number of nursing care equipment rental
sales centers became 58 with one newly opened. Rental sales continued to
perform steadily, primarily for electric beds and wheelchairs. However, profit
fell due to an increase in manpower expenses associated with enhancing its
sales structure.In Food Services, sales
increased 2.2% y-o-y and operating profit decreased 45.9% y-o-y. The profit was
depressed by temporary inefficient operations affected by improvement work at a
large hospital from whom the Company had received a new food service order as
well as increased costs for food materials. However, its profitability began to
improve because on a half-year basis it returned to the black for the latter
half. In other, both sales and
profit declined with sales down 1.0% y-o-y and operating profit down 8.6%
y-o-y. The declines were due to time lag of orders for cleaning equipment
manufacturing operations at PUREX, one of the Company’s subsidiaries, as well as a sales decrease for the Aqua Clara
business which was affected by intensified competition. ○Pharmacy Services In Pharmacy Services , both sales and profits increased, with
net sales of \36,751mn, up 4.2% y-o-y, and operating profit of \3,440mn, up
10.4% y-o-y.Factors for increased sales
include a 1.4% y-o-y increase in the number of prescriptions received due to
eight new pharmacies newly opened (115 pharmacies as of the end of FY3/15) and
a 2.8% y-o-y increase in the average value of prescription filled. Moreover, the Company is
stepping up its initiatives for at-home drug dispensing services and the number
of pharmacies implementing these services enlarged from 47 as of the end of
FY3/14 to 63, which contributed to a large increase in sales by 40.2% y-o-y. Operating profit in this segment increased due to the effect of
higher sales and two special factors, despite an increase in manpower costs
because of a higher number of pharmacists (up 26 from the end of FY3/14 to
562). The first of the two factors was the new inclusion within the scope of
consolidation of a generic drug wholesale company that supplies Tanpopo
Pharmacy; and the second was that the Company procured the current fiscal year’s stock of pharmaceutical products in FY3/14 as a countermeasure
in advance of the consumption tax rate increase in April 2014, so that the
corresponding consumption tax was recorded in expenses for the previous fiscal
year which otherwise would have been recorded for the current fiscal year.Furthermore, looking at the
effects of the revision of medical fee system implemented in April 2014,
although there was a negative impact from the revision of the special exemption
on basic dispensing pharmacy fees,* the impact was minimized because the ratio of generic
pharmaceutical products traded advanced more than initially envisaged, climbing
to 56.8% as of the end of FY3/15. The Company’s Pharmacy Services business
is distinctive in that it maintains a high level of profitability. In FY3/15
the operating profit margin was 9.4% and it should be noted that the Company
continued to achieve one of the highest levels of profitability compared with
other companies in the same industry.○Environmental Services In Environmental Services,
sales increased 2.4% y-o-y to \12,548mn while operating profit declined 35.9%
to \371mn, which made Environmental Services the only one of the three core
segments to record lowered profit. Sales increased as a result of steady
performance by the solar power and hospital cleaning businesses. However,
operating profit fell because of a sales decrease in mats and mops due to
pullbacks in consumer spending after the consumption tax increase and increased
costs for materials for the Leasekin rental business. On the other hand, for the hospital cleaning business, the
Company made Bilmen Co. its subsidiary in April, 2013 which has the Tokyo
metropolitan area as its main playing ground. This led to an increased number
of contracts and sales in the Kanto area.Inventory levels are normalized, profitability
improvement remains to be solved. (3) Financial status Total assets at the end of
FY3/15 were \73,865mn, up \3,653mn from the end of FY3/14. Main factors for
increase or decrease are as follows: Whereas inventory decreased (down \1,528mn
y-o-y) as a reaction to inventory buildup in the previous period as a
countermeasure to the consumption tax rate increase, cash/deposits and marketable
securities (up \3,520mn y-o-y) increased, along with investment account
securities (up \1,152mn y-o-y), long-term loans (up \636mn y-o-y) and others,
which are included in fixed assets. Total liabilities at the end
of FY3/15 were \25,938mn, down \1,190mn from the end of FY3/14. The main
factors that led to the decline in total liabilities are a decrease in notes
and accounts payable (by \1,367mn y-o-y) associated with the normalization of
inventory levels, and a decrease in income taxes payable (by \771mn y-o-y),
while other current liabilities and deferred tax liability increased (by \607mn
y-o-y and by \426mn y-o-y). Meanwhile, total net assets were \47,926mn, up
\4,843mn y-o-y with increases in accumulated earnings by \4,102mn y-o-y and
valuation difference on available-for-sale securities by \650mn y-o-y. Management indicators showed that the Company has continued to
strengthen its financial position, with the equity ratio at 64.6%, up 3.6
percentage points from the end of FY3/14 and interest-bearing debt ratio having
dropped to 6.7% under the tendency of a decline year by year. As for
profitability, whereas ROA declined somewhat with the increase in total assets,
ROE was 10.1%, returning to a level of more than 10% in three fiscal years. On
the other hand, operating profit margin was 7.2%, which was a third consecutive
decline, and thus the improvement in profitability is a future issue for the
Company.◆Forecasts For FY3/16, continued sales growth forecasted and expense
increases taken into plan for human resource development and others (1) Company forecasts for
FY3/16 For FY3/16, the Company forecasts a 4.6% y-o-y rise in
consolidated sales to \102,711mn, a 2.9% decline in operating profit to
\6,887mn, a 3.9% decline in recurring profit to \7,055mn and a 2.0% decline in
net profit to \4,495mn, namely an increase in sales and a decrease in profit.
On top of a decline in profit forecasted for Pharmacy Services, an expected
increase in head office expenses is another factor for a profit decline. Head
office expenses are estimated to increase by \310mn y-o-y due to events for the
60th anniversary and human resource development for securing manpower, and others.
Forecasts by segment are as shown below.○Healthcare Services For FY3/16, the Company projects a 3.1% y-o-y rise in sales and
a 5.8% y-o-y increase in operating profit for Healthcare Services. Of this, in
Hospital Services, linen supply is expected to continue performing steadily in
securing a number of contracts, and key items such as “hospitalization sets”
and “NEXSURG” are expected to make double-digit increases by 35% y-o-y and
17% y-o-y respectively.In SILVER Services, the
Company is forecasting increases in both sales and profit as the market of home
nursing care continues to expand. Since competition is intensifying in this
field, the Company has decided to increase its sales staff by about 50 people
and enhance its support system for local care-giving planners. As for its sales
bases, the Company plans to open three new sales bases in urban areas
(Tokyo/Nerima, Kanagawa/Sagamihara and Aichi/Nagoya-higashi) during November – December, 2015. Also, the Company plans, through cooperation
with the Hospital Services business, to enhance its approaches to the discharge
desks of hospitals so that it can retain potential customers for nursing care
products. Looking at the most recent situation on its rental sales, sales
growth momentum is returning as its sales in April increased by 8% y-o-y, and
accordingly the Company expects further sales expansion in the future. In Food Supply, the Company
expects improvement in its inefficient operations since repair work has
completed, which continued till the previous fiscal year at a customer’s site from whom a large new order had been received. Also, in
the business of manufacturing cleaning equipment, the time lag of orders that
adversely affected the previous fiscal year will favorably affect this fiscal
year. Owing to the above and other factors, both Food Supply and the cleaning
equipment manufacturing business are expected to record increases in both sales
and profit. ○Pharmacy Services In Pharmacy Services, the
Company forecasts an increase in sales and a decrease in profit for FY3/16 with
a 7.1% y-o-y expansion of sales and a 5.1% y-o-y decline in operating profit. A
factor contributing to the decline in profit is that advanced booking of
expenses associated with the consumption tax rate increase made in FY3/14 will
be normalized in this fiscal year. On the other hand, in FY3/16
the Company plans to continue to increase the ratio of generic pharmaceutical
products (targeting for the current period 59% or up 2.2% y-o-y) that it
handles, and it also plans to focus on at-home dispensing services so that it
can assume the role of a local “family pharmacy” despite a pharmacy located in front of a hospital. In the
dispensing pharmacy service industry that will grow in intensity from now on,
it will decide the outcome whether a pharmacy can develop its business in line
with national policies such as an active approach to at-home dispensing
services as well as enhancement of the family pharmacy function. Meanwhile, the Company plans
to open eight new pharmacies in FY3/16. ○Environmental Services In Environmental Services, the
Company expects a 3.4% y-o-y rise in sales and a 9.5% y-o-y increase in
operating profit. In the core LEASEKIN business, it expects to recover profit,
under an industry-wide shrinking market, by shifting key products from the
previous mats and mops to toilet peripheral products (such as seat cleaners,
sanitary boxes) and also by enhancing sales efforts toward hospitals and
nursing care welfare facilities that would put much weight in infection
prevention. Further, in the hospital cleaning business, the Company expects to
achieve increase in both sales and profit by increasing the number of contracts
with pursuing collaboration within the group. Furthermore, in the solar power electricity selling business,
the Company commenced operations of a 1.2 MW total output solar power
generation facility in Hiroshima in July 2013, which has been contributing to
profits since the first fiscal year of its operation. In July 2015, another
solar power generation facility with an 8 MW output in Tagawa City, Fukuoka
Prefecture is scheduled to begin its operation with anticipated sales of about
\340mn per year.○Capital expenditure
plans In FY3/16, the Company plans to invest \5,127mn in plant and
equipment. For the main factor, \2,392mn will be spent to construct a plant in
Kyoto, as a maintenance center for nursing care equipment and a cleaning
factory for linen supply. These new facilities are scheduled to start
operations in February – March 2016. The new
facilities are planned because an existing maintenance center in the Kansai
area has become cramped and because the Company needs to strengthen linen
supply services for customers in the Kansai area. Since the Company does not
have a linen supply factory in the Kansai area and it has been distributing
linen from its Hashima/Gifu factory. Therefore, with the operation startup at
the new factory, reduction of distribution costs and improvement of
productivity will be expected. The Company expects its depreciation expense
will be \3,165mn, up \143mn y-o-y as a result of increased capital expenditure.As an “comprehensive healthcare
company,” the Company seeks to grow further (2) Middle-term growth
strategy Toward the realization of “Integrated Community Care System” as a national policy amid the progress of population aging, the
Company intends to employ a strategy of advancing further growth as an “comprehensive healthcare company” by assuming the role of jointing medical services to nursing
services with strengthened collaboration among Hospital Services, Silver
Services and Dispensing Pharmacy Services. Management’s two objectives are to make TOKAI Corp. “Japan’s leading renter of equipment
for the care of the elderly” and “to achieve consolidated sales of \110bn and a consolidated
recurring profit of \8.5bn.” In Japan’s health care industry, social
security expenses are estimated to increase year by year toward year 2025 when
baby boomers become “People Aged 75 and over,” making the burden per citizen very heavy. Thus, to curve the
increase of such social security expenses, an “Integrated Community Care System” is advocated as a national guideline. Its basic way of thinking
is to advance a community medical/nursing system to make it possible to shift
part of the function that hospitals and nursing care facilities have performed
to at-home services. The Company that operates businesses in both fields of
Hospital/Nursing care facilities services and at-home services is expected to
play an important role of providing a bridge between the two.It is considered that it will be a strength going forward for
the Company to have three businesses (Hospital Services, Silver Services and
Dispensing Pharmacy Services) that are related with the concept of “Integrated Community Care System.” The Company considers the following as its priority policies:
strengthening at-home nursing services to those discharged from hospitals,
enhancing at-home services closely associated with communities and responding
to changing hospital management environment. Strategies for each business are
as mentioned below.○SILVER Services In SILVER Services, the
Company intends to strengthen its support services for hospitalized patients to
return to at-home. Trying to grasp each patient’s needs at the time when hospitalized and to offer necessary
services, which it plans to lead to expansion of rental sales. Accordingly, the
Company will strengthen its collaboration with local-care giving planners as
well as sales contact to hospitals’
discharge desks. As for its operation base strategy, the Company intends to open
new stores after careful study mainly in the Tokyo metropolitan area, the
Kansai area and the Chubu area where the population is increasing remarkably so
that it can provide services closely associated with each community with the
goal of becoming the community’s number one store.○Dispensing Pharmacy
Services In Dispensing Pharmacy Services,
the Company intends to enhance at-home dispensing services setting its sights
on becoming a “family pharmacy” in each community. For this purpose, the Company has
streamlined its organizational structure including the formation of Home
Healthcare Promotion Center as well as it is streamlining its infrastructure
which included installation of a bioclean prescription laboratory at two model
stores. Further, in June 2015, it opened a specialized store for at-home
dispensing in Nagoya City, Aichi Prefecture. With regard to the number of stores, the Company’s immediate goal is 150. The areas for opening new stores are
the Tokai, Hokuriku, Kansai and Chugoku/Shikoku areas with 44 candidate
locations. With the present pace of opening new stores, the Company will
achieve 150 stores in total in four years.○Hospital Services Amid management circumstances
for hospitals getting severe, the Company intends to enlarge its profit by
securing a new profit source (hospitalization set) at hospitals as well as
offering a cost-down idea (“NEXSURG” and others) to them. Regarding the hospitalization
set, while patients’ needs for such sets are
increasing due to shortened lengths of hospitalization, the trend of “nuclear families” and other factors, its
penetration ratio is as low as 15%, so it can be considered that there is
considerable room for growth. Also, with regard to “NEXSURG” as a reusable product, since the demand is steadily expanding
in terms of reduction of medical waste and environmental load, the product is
estimated to grow with a double-digit percentage point yearly.◆Shareholder Return Policy Subject to achieving an increase in profit beyond the
plan, there is a possibility of a commemorative dividend. TOKAI Corp. aims to continue paying stable dividends and
allocate 15% of its net profit to total shareholder returns, including
dividends and share buy-backs. It currently plans to pay a dividend per share
of \39 for FY3/16 which is the same as for the previous fiscal year,
corresponding to a dividend payout ratio of 15.6 %. Meanwhile, since the current
fiscal year marks the Company’s 60th anniversary, management
may pay an additional commemorative dividend if it achieves an increased profit
exceeding its plan.◆Comparison with other companies in the same industry Having three businesses growth needs is an advantage,
there is room for stock price to be reevaluated Finally, we compare the stock indicators against those of other
companies in the same industry. Both PER (estimated) and PBR (actual) are
average. However, as mentioned above, the Company, having three businesses that
are necessary to grow as an “integrated healthcare company” can be expected to grow more than the industry average by
making the three businesses collaborate with one another, so in this sense,
there should be room for re-evaluation. On the other hand, in terms of
shareholder return policy such as dividend payout ratio or dividend yield, the
Company’s levels are lower than other companies in
the same industry. Thus, shareholder return is a future issue for consideration
which, however, should be subject to capital needs for future business
expansion. 報告內容僅供參考，不得作為任何投資引用之唯一依據，且其投資風險及決定應由投資人自行判斷並自負損益。