KENKOMayonnaiseCo.,Ltd.(JP-2915)TokyoStockExchangeFirstSectionDominantincommercial-use,Industryleaderinlong-lifesalads,eggsaladsetc.(II)
  2015-07-23 提供機構：FISCO 作者：FISCO 點閱次數：12   

◆Mid-Term Management
Plan Aiming for sales for
consolidated ¥75bn under the new Mid-term Management
Plan Outline of the New Mid-term
Management Plan “KENKO Five Code 2015-2017” The Company has announced a new Mid-term Management Plan, “KENKO Five Code 2015- 2017”, which starts from fiscal 2015. In terms of specific management
targets it aims for consolidated sales of ¥75bn, a consolidated RP margin of 5%, an equity ratio of 50% and
to maintain an ROE of 8% or above in FY3/18. In order to achieve these targets
it plans to put five policies into effect.5 Management Indices ○Globalization In addition to business
activities from raw material procurement to sales, the Company is engaging in
establishing business locations aimed at developing human resources in order to
undertake data collection activities (marketing) and global expansion. In
particular, in this Plan, the Company is giving thought to expansion into the
European and North American markets, and is planning to establish business
locations in order to collect data locally. KENKO Mayonnaise is aiming in the
future to be a company that broadcasts “trends in food” to the world. ○Innovation Not constrained by prevailing
wisdom and values, or existing structures, each staff member will continue to
always maintain flexibility in their thinking, and in every circumstance be
innovative and progressive, and to make a significant contribution. ○Best practice From investment plans and
capital policy, at every stage of business activity, the Company will respond
with a sense of urgency, making on each occasion the most efficient and
beneficial determination. ○Knowledge management To share within the Group the
50 years of know-how, including expertise, experience, production technology
and quality control skills, and promote the development of structures that
allow for knowledge management sharing, believing that this will also contribute
to future growth by linking to the next generation. ○Communication (Brand
development) We feel that brand value
enhancement is achieved through trust obtained via communication with
customers, and that by additionally boosting communication within the Company
and the Group, we can refine a three-pronged management structure that combines
our three business entities: the manufacturing function we have promoted to
date at KENKO Mayo, the delicatessen functions in the subsidiaries, and the
data collection and broadcasting functions utilizing shops and the Internet at
Salad Cafe. Business Strategies ○Establishing our
position as the Leading Company in Salads In order to establish its position as the Leading Company in
Salads the Company’s policy is to expand the
scale of sales in its various businesses. For FY3/18, the Company is targeting
sales increases of 19% for the mayonnaise and dressings business, 14% for the
salads and delicatessen business, 19% for the potato business and 23% for the
processed egg business (over FY3/15 actual results).In its egg business, which it
is expected will grow the most, the Company’s policy is to proceed with a staged expansion in domestic
factory facilities, focusing on the Shizuoka Fujisan Factory where orders are
firm. The Company’s policy is to strive to
develop the product lineup and promote new customer acquisition, by undertaking
product development that anticipates the development of functional products and
market needs. In respect of its mayonnaise
and dressings business, apart from strengthening its product lineup in, for
example, its World Sauce series and functional products, the Company continues
to undertake innovation including in container formats to respond to
small-package and other product (demand). In its salad and delicatessen
business, in addition to expanding its World Salad series, apart from strengthening
product series such as its Japanese Manna Salad series of Japanese dishes, the
Company will promote product development, engaging in unearthing new
ingredients that broaden the range of salads and expand small-package
commercial-use products. In its potato business, apart
from strengthening products that meet market needs (e.g. pre-processed potatoes
for commercial usage), the Company will promote revitalization of the potato
salad market, proposing menus where potato salads are the principal dishes. ○Further evolving “Salad Cuisine” Toward further evolution of
Salad Cuisine the Company is strengthening KENKO Mayonnaise Group structures.
The Group will continue to broadcast Salad Cuisine utilizing the media at KENKO
Mayonnaise parent. In addition, at subsidiaries that manufacture and sell daily
items, the Group will expand its sales market share to local big box retailers,
strengthening product development and its menu proposal capabilities.
Furthermore, the Group will increase the number of its Salad Cafe shops to 23
by FY3/18 (from 16 at the end of the previous period), and will undertake
expansion of salad cuisine tutorials. ○Strengthening the
management platform to proactively promote expansion into global markets In terms of the Company’s overseas strategy, it is promoting the strengthening of egg
and Halal products at its Indonesian production site, and expanding exports from
Indonesia. Further, in the European and North American markets it will
establish a business location in order to collect data and broadcast trends on
food to the world. In respect of export sales from Japan, from ¥350mn in FY3/15 the Company is aiming for ¥1,000mn in FY3/18. In addition to mayonnaise and dressings,
going forward the plan is to expand exports such as salads and thick omelettes,
positioning this period as one in which the Company seeks to strengthen its
management platform to develop foreign markets in earnest.◆Financial Condition
& Policy on Shareholder Returns Capital demand from the new
factory construction complete, improvement in safety indices (1) Financial Condition In respect of the financial condition as of end-March 2015, total
assets declined ¥237mn year-on-year to ¥39,448mn. The main factors behind fluctuations were increases of
¥894mn in cash and deposits and ¥1,150mn in accounts receivable on the one hand, and declines of ¥1,469mn and ¥908mn in other accounts
receivable and tangible fixed assets respectively on the other.At the same time, liabilities
declined ¥2,395mn year-on-year to ¥21,481mn. Apart from a decline of ¥1,358mn in interest bearing liabilities, accrued amounts payable
and equipment-related bills payable declined by ¥1,098mn and ¥1,102mn respectively. Net
assets rose ¥2,157mn year-on-year as a result of
retained earnings to ¥17,967mn. Looking at management indices,
interest-bearing debt increased in FY3/14 in the form of capital required for
the construction of the new factory, however, in addition to that capital
demand now being over, interest-bearing debt has fallen due to expansion in
earnings, and all management safety indices have improved, including the equity
ratio and interest-bearing debt ratio. For the time being the likelihood of
large scale demand for capital arising is slight, with improvement in financial
condition forecast to proceed along with earnings expansion. Moreover, in
respect of its equity ratio, the Company is aiming for a level of 50% under the
new Mid-term Management Plan. On the other hand, profitability indices have shown steady
performance over the last few years. Under the new Mid-term Management Plan the
Company is aiming to have an RP margin of 5% and ROE of 8% or above in 3 years
time, however, this is almost the same level as current profitability, with it
considered that this is readily achievable if sales expand in accordance with
the plan.Policy to raise the level of
dividends stably in line with corporate earnings expansion (2) Shareholder Return Policy The Company’s shareholder returns are cash
dividend payments and special gift exclusives for shareholders. On the basis of
a dividend payout ratio of 20% on a consolidated basis, while taking into
consideration the sustainability of dividends, its policy is to stably raise
dividends in line with increased earnings. The dividend per share in FY3/15 was
¥23 (¥10.00 interim and ¥13.00 year-end, for a payout
ratio of 19.9%), being a ¥2 rise over the previous
period. Given that revenues and earnings are expected to grow in FY3/16, it is
planned that the dividend per share will be raised by ¥2 year-on-year to ¥25.00 (interim ¥11.00 and year-end ¥14.00,
for a payout ratio of 20.1%). As such, if it appears that earnings growth will
continue from FY3/17 also, it is highly likely that cash dividends will also
increase.At the same time, as a special gift to shareholders, KENKO Mayo
presents the company’s products as gifts to
shareholders of register as of March 31. A present with a value of ¥1,000 is given to shareholders with 100 to 999 shares, while a
present with a value of ¥2,500 is given to shareholders
of 1,000 or more shares. The investment return per unit of shares including the
shareholder special gift was at the 2% mark based on conversion at a share
price of ¥1,651 as of May 28. 報告內容僅供參考，不得作為任何投資引用之唯一依據，且其投資風險及決定應由投資人自行判斷並自負損益。