V-cube,Inc.(JP-3681)TSEMothersAimingtoBecometheNo.1VisualCommunicationCompanyinAsia(I)
  2015-03-31 提供機構：FISCO 作者：FISCO 點閱次數：37   

V-cube, Inc.’s <3681> core business is visual communication, primarily
web conference services using a cloud platform. The business has been growing
rapidly in Japan and Asia. The company has a distinctively wide range of
product lines to meet users’ needs, including not only web
conferencing, but also webinar, online sales, and distant learning. In the fiscal year ended
December 2014, i.e. FY12/14, the company set a new record for earnings with
consolidated net sales of \4,681mn, up 85.4% year on year (YOY), operating
income of \403mn, up 45.9%, ordinary income of \594mn, up 125.4%, and net
income of \261mn, up 13.7%. For FY12/15, the company is projecting consolidated
net sales of \6,400mn, up 36.7% YOY, operating income of \502mn, up 24.5%,
ordinary income of \500mn, down 16.0%, and net income of \267mn, up 2.0%.
However, the company has positioned FY12/15 as a phase for accelerating
business expansion and will therefore be focusing on expanding sales more than
profits, in an effort to hasten expansion of its markets and market share. The
company therefore expects to record zero profits for the first half, with
profits concentrated the second half. Since the company’s services are based on cloud computing, as long as it can
secure net sales, it should be able to achieve profits. The company’s core medium-term growth
strategies are 1) Expand our existing share and explore potential, 2)
Asia-based overseas expansion, and 3) Development of a B to B to C platform
model. There is still ample room for development in both the Japanese and
overseas markets, and the company’s progress on these strategies
will be watched by many.◆Corporate Overview Shifting from the core web solutions business to web
conferencing (1) History Representative director and
president Naoaki Mashita started V-cube Internet, Ltd. when he was a student at
Keio University, as a company to provide web solutions. This company was the predecessor
to V-cube, Inc., subsequently receiving an investment from Keio University and
changing its business line and name to reach its current form. Today, the
company’s mainstay business is visual
communications centered on web conferencing. The company is expanding its
operations with the goal of becoming No. 1 in Asia in this business. The
company’s stock was listed on the Tokyo Stock
Exchange Mothers market in December 2013. Cloud-based services such as web conferencing for
corporate customers are an earnings pillar (2) Business Overview The company’s business can be described
briefly as “provision of visual communication
services via the Internet,” typically web conference
services and webinars. The company’s
main business is provision of visual communication services in a Software as a
Service (SaaS) format (monthly fee) using a cloud computing platform. The
company’s sale format is described below.●Special characteristics
of web conferencing Services such as telephone and
TV conferencing have been widely used by corporations for some time. However,
the services require special equipment which could only be used at the site of
installation. By contrast, the company’s
web conferencing service is provided via the Internet and is therefore available
for use at any location with an Internet connection. Moreover, the service does
not require dedicated equipment or terminals; users can simply use ordinary
devices such as PCs, smartphones, or tablets. In other words, the special
characteristic and strength of web conferencing is that it can be used anytime,
anywhere, and by anyone. ●Special characteristics
of cloud-based businesses The company is developing
primarily a cloud-based business. With such businesses, barring the case of a
large scale contract cancellation, the net sales of a given upcoming fiscal
year tend to be the amount of sales in final month of the previous fiscal year
(in this case, December) × 12 plus the amount of newly acquired customers.
Since the business is a cloud-based business, there are few variable costs and
a large portion of added net sales can usually be added to profit. The special
characteristic of cloud-based businesses is that once the sales exceed
break-even point, the profitability increases sharply. ●Revenue sources The company provides its
services to corporate clients. It does not have transactions with individuals.
The clients cover a wide range from SMEs to large-scale listed companies, and
are not biased toward a particular industry. The monthly fee differs depending
on the maximum number of conference participants in a wide range from \5,000 to
several hundred thousand yen, with most customers paying between \50,000 and
\80,000. Therefore, increasing (building up) the number of subscribing companies
and the amount of fees per company increases the company’s net sales (increases earnings). The company does not disclose
the number of customers, however few companies cancel their subscriptions once
they have subscribed, and most subscriptions appear to be continuing. Cloud-based services (monthly
fees) currently account for 60% of the company’s net sales; however, there are also some customers who are
constrained from using cloud-based services due to security aspects, and the
company provides them with an on-premises-type solution using a dedicated
server, which is a one-time sale type of service. The price for the
on-premises-type solution is apparently equivalent to around three years’ worth of cloud-based fees. Despite being an on-premises-type solution,
it includes an ongoing maintenance agreement, and it is therefore important for
the company to build up the numbers of this kind of customer too. Furthermore, in addition to
the above, the company also sells appliances, including electronic smart board
systems that bundle hardware and software together as a package. The company’s consolidated subsidiary PioneerVC Corporation (PVC) handles
these. ●Main costs The company’s main costs are server and
communication line (dedicated line) fees, software development expenses,
operating costs, and the like. It uses external data centers for servers,
however some of the servers are its own dedicated servers. An increase in
customers (usage amount) entails an increase in server fees to a certain
degree; however the ratio of server fees to net sales decreases as the net
sales increase further. The situation is similar with communication line costs,
which increase with the increase in net sales, but at a slower rate. In other
words, as the company’s net sales increase past the
breakeven point, it will become more profitable.On the other hand, software
development, operating costs, and so forth are up-front investment components,
and may not always change in proportion to net sales. They can therefore weigh
on profitability improvement depending on the business plan. At present these
costs are on a rising trend since the company is currently in an upfront investment
phase. In appliances sales, the cost
of sales rises proportionately to the increase in net sales. For example, in
the case of electronic smart board systems, the company procures large-size LCD
displays and sells them. Maintained top market share in the Japanese web
conference market for a seventh consecutive year, with a share of over 30% (3) Industry share, special
characteristics, and strengths Web conferencing services
themselves do not require special technological capabilities, and the market is
relatively easy to enter. In such a market, the company’s special characteristics and strengths are in the following
areas. ●Strong service lineup In addition to its main line
in web conference services, the company has a wide range of other services to
meet other needs such as webinars, online sales, distant learning,
tele-healthcare and Counseling, video distribution, and online support. The
fundamental technologies underpinning these services are the same as for web
conferencing, however the company provides good usability in each field, which
has earned it a strong reputation among the users in each field. Through
continuous R&D, the company is gradually winning the advantage over its
competitors. Moreover, the company made PVC
a subsidiary in May 2014, as mentioned above. PVC’s main products are electronic smart boards. In addition to
selling electronic smart boards and related solutions, it will now also be able
to provide solutions that combine the electronic smart boards with V-cube’s web conferencing and webinar expertise. Furthermore, from October
2014, PVC integrated its visual collaboration services under the new xSync (“by-sync”) brand, and commenced
provision of xSync Prime Collaboration. xSync Prime Collaboration is a service
designed to meet the need to have meetings with overseas bases such as offshore
production plants just as with domestic plants. It realizes high quality visual
collaboration between countries. ●Overseas (Asia)
expansion capability The company’s services extend beyond Japan. They have developed a service
for connecting overseas data centers in a dedicated network, which is provided
in 11 countries centered mainly on Asia (Japan, China, Singapore, Malaysia,
Indonesia, Thailand, Vietnam, Philippines, India, US, and UK). The company also
provides multi-language localization of its cloud-based services (Japanese,
English, Chinese (simplified and traditional), French, Indonesian, Thai, and
Korean), along with an enhanced English-language support center and other
measures for global expansion. Having this infrastructure already established
(ahead of competitors) is one of the company’s strengths. In Asia especially, even if the respective countries have
relatively strong internal telecommunication networks, their inter-country
communication environment (international communication lines) are often
unstable, causing frequent disruptions with TV conferences and other such
communications between countries. The company’s services solve this issue by using dedicated lines to provide
a stable communication environment, even between countries, enabling users to
use the company’s web conferencing service with
confidence.●Market share and
competition The company’s share of the Japanese web
conferencing market is estimated at around 31.4%, and it has held the top
position for seven consecutive years. Its main competitors are Company C, (a US
communications major, share 17.0%), Company N (a Japanese communications major,
share 13.9%), and Company F (a Japanese communications major, share 9.2%).Moreover, in the Asia-Pacific
(APAC) region, the company’s share is estimated at 17.7%,
making it second to US company C (32.3%). ●Providing services as a
specialist company As mentioned above, the
company’s main competitors are a foreign-owned
company and subsidiaries of major Japanese companies. It stands to reason that
they may not necessarily be providing services that meet users’ needs. Foreign-owned companies often relocate the services and
standards of their own countries without adapting them, and do not always meet
the needs of Japanese users. Moreover, most major Japanese corporations do not
have web conferencing as their main business, and in many cases are not
aggressively investing cash, personnel, and other resources in this field. It
is therefore difficult to see how they could be fully meeting customer needs. Here, as a specialist in visual communication services centered
on web conferencing services, the company differentiates itself from other
companies in the industry because it can continuously make new investments,
usability improvements, and so forth to meet customers’ needs.◆Business Trends Achieved major increase in sales and profits in FY12/14
with contribution from PioneerVC acquisition (1) Business trends in FY12/14
●Profit and loss For FY12/14 the company’s
consolidated net sales rose 85.4% YOY to \4,681mn, operating income rose 45.9%
to \403mn, ordinary income rose 125.4% to \594mn, and net income rose 13.7% to
\261mn.Net sales increased
dramatically from the previous fiscal year, mainly due to the acquisition of
PVC, however they were 0.5% lower than originally forecast. Operating income
also rose sharply over the previous fiscal year but achieved only 76.5% of the
original forecast of \527mn. The main reason for operating income falling below
forecast was lower-than-expected cloud-service sales, described below, but the
result was not a poor one by any standard. Meanwhile, ordinary income
rose 125.4%, mainly reflecting the recording of a foreign exchange gain of
\171mn (compared to \46mn in FY12/13) in non-operating income. Nevertheless,
net income increased only 13.7% YOY, due to recording \21mn as a loss on
valuation of treasury subscription rights to shares (extraordinary loss),
non-controlling interests in loss of \93mn due to growth in income of
consolidated subsidiaries, and a tax obligation of \220mn due to elimination of
accumulated losses. By region, net sales were
\3,993mn in Japan (up 74.7% YOY), \590mn in China (up 306.5%), and \97mn in
other countries (up 3.6%). Sales in Japan increased dramatically, mainly due to
the acquisition of PVC. Overseas, the subsidiary established in China in 2013
began operations smoothly and contributed to consolidated net sales. In
particular, a large-scale project for a Shanghai General Motors Company Ltd.
has made good progress, presenting opportunities for lateral development in the
future. In other overseas developments, geopolitical unrest in Thailand
suppressed sales growth there. As a result, the ratio of overseas sales
increased from 9.5% in FY12/13 to 14.7%. In net sales in Japan by sale format, the company recorded net
sales of \2,324mn for the mainstay cloud format (up 19.6% YOY) and \596mn for
the on-premises format (up 143.7%). Furthermore, the company recorded sales of
\852mn (no sales in FY12/13) in appliances, a new sale format (primarily PVC’s electronic smart board sales) that was added from FY12/14, and
\219mn (up 125.6%) in other sales.Net sales have expanded steadily, but sales in cloud services,
which have high profitability, were below plan, while sales in on-premises and
appliances, which have relatively low profit margins, expanded. As a result,
the gross profit margin fell to 57.7% (66.7% in FY12/13). Cloud sales were
below plan because long-term contracts (recorded as approximately 80% of net
sales at once) declined, resulting in a slow-down in sales for the present.
However, the key index for cloud-based services, the number of subscription
ports (subscription unit), expanded steadily along with the usage time.
Moreover, the company has developed V-CUBE One, a new concept for a fee system
in which multiple V-CUBE services are used as a single package. As a result,
from 3Q to 4Q FY12/14, the port unit price increased from \4,005 to \4,451,
which is by no means a poor performance.Operating income reflected the
following factors. The cost of sales increased by \1,138mn YOY (of \838mn for
purchasing costs, \542mn was for an increase in purchasing in appliances),
software amortization expenses increased by \73mn, other outsourcing expenses
increased by \227mn, selling, general, and administrative expenses increased by
\891mn (personnel and related expenses increased by \409mn, commission payments
increased by \114mn, sales strategy expenses increased by \111mn, amortization
of goodwill increased by \63mn, and other expenses increased by \191mn).
However, net sales rose \2,156mn, absorbing the increase in costs, so that
operating income increased by \127mn. ●Financial condition The company’s financial condition at the end of FY12/14 was as shown in the
table. Current assets stood at \2,987mn (\3,391mn at the end of FY12/13),
however this was mainly due to the use of cash for investments and so forth
after it had increased in FY12/13 due to the issuing of new shares and other
factors. Noncurrent assets increased to \3,270mn (\1,638mn at the end of
FY12/13), mainly reflecting an increase in software to \1,806mn from \1,224mn
at the end of FY12/13, and an increase in goodwill to \833mn (\145mn at the end
of FY12/13) in association with the acquisition of PVC and other factors. As a
result, total assets were \6,257mn (up \1,227mn from the end of FY12/13). Current liabilities increased to \1,350mn (\951mn at the end of
FY12/13), mainly reflecting an increase in notes and accounts payable-trade of
\185mn and a decrease in short-term loans payable of \118mn. Moreover, net
assets increased to \4,400mn (\3,757mn at the end of FY12/13), mainly as a
result of an increase in non-controlling interests of \308mn associated with
the consolidation of PVC, while capital surplus increased by \262mn due to the
recording of net income.For FY12/15, focusing on cloud and appliances in Japan,
and growth in China (2) Forecast for FY12/15 For FY12/15 the company is
forecasting consolidated net sales of \6,400mn, up 36.7% YOY, operating income
of \502mn, up 24.5%, ordinary income of \500mn, down 16.0%, and net income of
\267mn, up 2.0%. The decline in ordinary income is mainly due to the impact of
the significant foreign exchange gains that were generated in FY12/14 as
discussed above. Moreover, net income is expected to grow at a slower pace as
in FY12/14 due to the impact of taxes and non-controlling interests. Net sales are expected to be concentrated in the second half of
the year, as non-consolidated net sales tend to be mainly in the second half
and the sales peak at PVC for appliances in Japan (mainly electronic smart
boards) tends to occur during 3Q. Net sales for 1H FY12/15 are projected to be
\2,700mn (up 55.8% YOY). However, operating expenses of PVC will apply for the
full year from FY12/15, and personnel expenses will increase in line with an
increase in sales staff from FY12/14, along with sales expenses for acquiring
customers for the future. These and other expense increases are expected to
bring all profit levels to zero. The company expects 1H FY12/15 to be a period
for particularly intense investment activity, the effects of which are not
planned to emerge until FY12/16 onward. The deterioration in profit during
FY12/15 is therefore not considered problematic.By region, the company is
projecting consolidated net sales as follows: Japan \5,359mn (up 34.2% YOY),
China \811mn (up 37.4%), other overseas \229mn (up 134.5%). Moreover, from
FY12/14 the company has disclosed consolidated net sales by sale format.
Projections for FY12/15 are as follows: cloud \3,516mn (up 24.6% YOY),
on-premises \841mn (up 9.1%), appliances \1,582mn (up 85.6%) and other \459mn
(up 95.7%). Clearly, the company’s sales growth drivers in terms of sale format are cloud and
appliances, and in terms of regions, China. The company is also planning to
expand sales in other overseas by actively opening up new markets. On the expenses front, the
company is forecasting the following increases for FY12/15: purchasing \561mn
(of which appliances in Japan are \390mn), outsourcing expenses \217mn,
amortization of software \167mn. In addition, the company is projecting that
personnel expenses will increase by \470mn due to the consolidation of PVC
(full-year burden) and an increase in sales and development personnel, while
amortization of goodwill increases by \76mn, and sales strategy expenses by
\41mn, among others. Since these kinds of upfront-investment style expenses
will continue to increase, the company is projecting zero profit for 1H
FY12/15, and full-year profit growth as outlined above.  報告內容僅供參考，不得作為任何投資引用之唯一依據，且其投資風險及決定應由投資人自行判斷並自負損益。