DynamJapanHoldings(JP-06889)HongKongStockExchangeAcceleratingselectionofcandidatelandfornewhallsitesfromthesecondhalfofFY3/15(I)
  2015-01-20 提供機構：FISCO 作者：FISCO 點閱次數：16   

Dynam Japan Holdings Co., Ltd
is one of Japan’s largest operators of pachinko and
pachinko slot halls with the largest number of halls operated and the second
largest in terms of ball rental fee income. The company’s strength and characteristics lie in its low-cost operations
worked out based on the theory of chain store operations, which are thoroughly
applied to newly opened halls as well as daily hall operations. Also, the
theory of chain-store operations has penetrated deeply into the foundation of
the company as a corporation such as customer creed, information disclosure,
and compliance management. While it has long been said
that the environment surrounding the pachinko industry is severe, the middle
term (first 6 months) of the financial period ending March, 2015 faced
exceptionally severe circumstances due to influences from the consumption tax increase
in April, 2014. Even the company who is more competitive than other companies
in the industry recorded a decrease of 1.8% year-on-year (y-o-y) in “operating revenue” corresponding to sales
amount. On the other hand, the company recorded an operating profit increase of
0.5% y-o-y as a result of its cost reduction measures in various expenditures
such as for machines. In spite of being in the midst
of the shrinking market, the company is very firm in its belief in the
realization of growth and in its share-expanding policies. Despite increasing
expenses for opening new halls due to the increase in material prices and labor
costs, the company continues to maintain adequately high levels of investment
returns. From this second half of the fiscal year, the company plans to
accelerate selection of candidate land for new hall sites in an aim to double
the number of its newly opened halls to 40 halls or more for FY3/16 y-o-y. The idea of casinos that had been expected to assume the “next” generation after pachinko
fell apart as “Integrated Resort Promotion bill (a bill
concerning the Law on Promotion of the Development of Specified Integrated
Resort Areas)” was dead upon the Lower House
dissolution. But the bill is estimated to be submitted to the Diet again at the
time when the political situation is stabilized through the general election
this time and the nation-wide local elections in April, 2015 since expectations
have been kept for IR Promotion bill as a local economy promotion measure. The
company intends to continue preparations for casino business.◆Backbone: The theory of chain-store operations Steady growth even under adverse circumstances, opening
highly efficient halls cautiously but aggressively ~Company history and business
outline~ Dynam Japan Holdings is one of
the largest operators of pachinko halls in Japan having 380 halls as of
September, 2014, the largest in Japan. The domestic pachinko market in Japan is on the decline and the
number of pachinko halls is also on a decreasing trend. If the peak year of
1995 and the most recent year are compared, drastic decreases are seen from ¥30.9 trillion to ¥18.8 trillion (for 2013) for
sales, from ¥29 mn to ¥9.7 mn (for 2103) for game players and from 17,631 halls to
11,178 halls (for 2012).Under these adverse circumstances the company has achieved
stable growth. If compared with FY1995, pachinko ball rental fee income
significantly increased from ¥113,094 mn for FY1995 to ¥922,172 mn for FY2013 and pachinko halls also significantly
increased from 45 for FY1995 to 375 as of the end of March, 2014. The first
contributing factor for the above is that while seriously accepting the
shrinkage of the pachinko market as a structural problem, the company has been
convinced of the existence of large room for its growth through expanding its
share in the market still as big as close to ¥20 trillion. As for its specific strategies for increasing its
market share, the company has positively introduced “low playing cost machines” and fully enforced “low-cost
operations” to ensure profits as well, which should
be the second contributing factor. The thought of low-cost operations has been
thoroughly enforced not only for operating existing halls but also for opening
new halls. Thus, the company has established a hall-opening model contributing
to profitability and efficiency and has continued to open new halls cautiously
but aggressively. This should be considered as the third contributing factor.In order to understand the company’s strategy for growth it is indispensable to understand the
history of the company and the management Mr. Yoji Sato, current Chairman of
the Board of Directors, has promoted based on the theory of chain-store
operations. Mr. Sato entered Daiei after graduation from a university. He did
so because he was impressed by “the theory of chain-store
operations” which had just come into Japan. Later,
he succeeded his late father to have engaged in the management of Dynam. He has
boosted Dynam Group to one of the leading companies in the industry by adopting
the theory of chain-store operations into the management of pachinko halls.
Also, the company incorporated such elements as customer creed, information
disclosure, and compliance management at a much earlier stage even compared
with companies in other industries, not to mention those in the pachinko
industry to reduce management risks. This can be said as the effect brought by
his having adopted the theory of chain-store operations.◆Strength: Low-cost operations Developed from the chain store management theory, Applied
to both opening new halls and operating existing halls. The company’s important concept as a core of management is a low-cost
operation which was developed from the theory of chain-store operations. This
is applied to both operating existing halls and opening new halls. ○ Low-cost operations
for opening new halls The company established a standardized model for opening a new
hall a few years ago and since then has been opening new halls based on that
model. Specifically, the basic idea is a roadside-type hall in an area of a
targeted population of 50,000. The company aims to limit the total hall opening
costs to about ¥450 mn (expenses for machines excepted)
with the land of 3,500 “tsubo” (about 11,550 m2) as a benchmark to be leased for a term of 20
years and a wooden, one-story building. The company books expenses for pachinko
machines, which would be ¥150 mn, as expenses in a lump
sum for the first year instead of recording them as assets. In this way, the
first year will be in red but the second year and onward will be in black. The
company’ targets 28.9% for the average yearly ROI
for 10 years. This standardized model for opening a hall progressed smoothly
through FY3/14. During the last two years through FY3/14, 20 new halls were
opened and the company realized these 20 hall openings in line with the above
model as the average of the 20 halls and business results after opening.In the middle term (first 6 months) of FY3/15, the company
revised its standardized model for opening a hall based on increased costs for
labor and materials. The target for initial expenses except machines was set at
¥505 mn, higher by ¥50 mn than the previous target. There were no changes in
operating profit and other standards, which, therefore, made the targeted ROI
reduced with the increased expenses for hall opening to 25.4%. An important
point is that this standardized model has been set at such a level that is
sustainable, reproducible or realistic, which can be applied not only to the 5
halls already opened during the first half of this fiscal year but also to 16
halls expected to be opened during the latter half of this fiscal year and
halls planned for the next fiscal year. Meanwhile, as for the sites for opening
halls, conversion of roadside agricultural land has been increasing, so it seems
that land for new halls has become easier to be obtained than before.○ Low-cost operations in hall managementMinimization of costs for
personnel and machine expenses is the key for low-cost operations since the two
make up approximately 60% of hall operational expenses. In terms of hall personnel expenses, introduction of a personal
system is a specific countermeasure. This is a system of managing balls rolled
out (balls each customer has won) by recording in cards. While normally a hall
is operated by 10 regular employees and about 10 part-timers on three shifts,
introduction of a personal system would make it possible to reduce 6 to 7
part-timers. As of the end of March, 2014, it is introduced at 217 halls out of
375 halls, and it is planned to be introduced further at 40 to 50 halls within
FY3/15.In terms of machine expenses introduction of second-hand and PB
(private brand) machines are considered. In case of PB machines FISCO figures a
cost-cutting effect of roughly about ¥100,000
per unit. At pachinko halls, gaming machines are frequently changed, so it will
become an important point to reduce installation costs by aggregating functions
to distribution centers. The company succeeded in reducing expenses for
machines by ¥2,040 mn for the middle term (first 6
months) of FY3/15.◆Growth: Middle term (first 6 months) plan for opening halls Growth scenario, in 10 years, share 10% and 1,000 halls The company holds a growth
scenario by expanding its market share as described above. It has been promoted steadily
in the form of implementing hall-opening plans based on its low-cost
hall-opening model without being affected by adverse environments of the
shrinking pachinko market. During the middle term (first
half) of FY3/15 there were 5 newly opened halls which made a total of 380 halls
as of the end of September, 2014. With 5 halls added during the two months of
October and November in the latter half, newly opened halls during FY3/15 are
planned to be at least 20. According to the company’s model for opening a hall, total expenses (except machines)
used to be set at ¥452 mn but they were revised
to ¥505 mn due to increased costs of labor
and materials. As a result the targeted average ROI for 10 years was also
decreased from 28.9% to 25.4% as we have already discussed. The company holds three types
of halls. “Conventional type” halls are halls with the brand of “Dynam” equipped with machines mainly
for a ball renting fee is set at ¥4 per ball as it used to be,
namely, halls mainly with “high-cost rental balls.” “Yuttari Kan” brand halls have characteristics of machines equipped mainly
with “low-cost rental balls” of ¥1 to ¥2 per ball and wider spaces between
gaming machines with wider aisles as well. “Shinrai no Mori” brand halls have the same
basic concept as “Yuttari Kan” but they are designed to attract women customers with the
arrangement of smoking prohibited. The present standardized model for opening a hall is based on “Yuttari Kan” and as a matter of fact, all
of the new halls are “Yuttari Kan” halls. Also, conversion of “Dynam” or “Shinrai no Mori” to “Yuttari Kan” has been promoted. As a
result “Yuttari Kan” has progressed to be the main type surpassing the traditional “Dynam” type.The company makes it a basic policy to cover capital investment
amounts on opening halls with its cash flow (total of net profit of current
period and depreciation cost). The company’s current standard level of annual cash flow is ¥30,000 mn (¥20,000 mn for net profit for
current period plus ¥10,000 mn for depreciation
cost). On the other hand there is an out-flow of cash of about ¥10,000 mn for dividends, so the amount that can be used for
capital investments is ¥20,000 mn. Since the cost per
hall for opening is ¥505 mn, it would become
possible to cover the expenses for about 40 halls per year within its cash
flow.The company’s long-term plan for hall-opening is “10-10-1000.” This means that in 10 years
(as of the end of FY3/23) the company will have achieved 10 % for market share
and 1,000 halls for halls operated). For that target, the company holds a plan
of opening new halls at the pace of 40 halls per year and of making up for any
shortfall with M&A’s. However, the company has
been opening much fewer halls compared with its plan for the last few years.
Nevertheless, FISCO considers that this should be evaluated favorably. The
reason is that this is a result caused by its compliance of the standardized
model for opening halls. Pachinko halls are not places that will sell daily
necessities unlike supermarkets but places for amusement, so the most important
matter is to ensure profits with individual halls. Therefore, FISCO considers
that expansion of halls should come after that. The company, however, plans to open a large number of halls over
40 during FY3/16. The reason is that offers of attractive land are increasing
lately although securing good sites has been a bottleneck till recently. At
this moment the company seems to have secured land for nearly 20 halls, so
there is a good possibility that more than 40 halls will be opened. In that
case, however, it is noteworthy to see if the company may continue to stick to
capital investment within its cash flow. It is FISCO’s opinion that it can be well justified in view of its strong
balance sheet if the company should choose to borrow funds.◆Competition: Low-playing cost machine operation High ratio of low-playing cost machine is made possible
by low-cost operations The existence of low-playing
cost machines is a main driving force of its expansion of market share. It is a
pachinko machine for which a ball rental fee has been reduced from the
traditional ¥4 per ball to ¥1 to ¥2 per ball. With ¥1,000 spent, a customer will get either 250 balls or 500 – 1,000 balls and he can spend a same length of time with a lower
cost and can play for a longer time with a same amount of money. That is to
say, it will have the ability to pull in or keep more customers in the hall. However, in terms of management the low-playing cost machine is
considered as a factor for pressing management. The reason is that even if a
same number of balls is rented, the income from such renting would become 1/4
to 1/2. The company has aggressively promoted the low-playing cost operation
with a weapon of “low-cost operations” as earlier mentioned because it is convinced of ensuring a
profit under such low-playing cost machine operation. As a result the company’s ratio of low-playing cost machine largely exceeds the average
of the industry.Comparison among the company’s three hall types tells us that the traditional “Dynam” type has the highest ratio of
operating profit vs. operating revenue (corresponding to operating profit on
sales) largely exceeding those ratios for the other two types. Although
operating profit on sales is important to the company, other factors such as actual
profit amounts, ability of attracting customers, competitive advantage over
competitors should also be important. Therefore, it is considered that the
company will not change its hall strategy of placing “Yuttari Kan” at the core. However, “Yuttari Kan” has high-playing cost
machines also, so their ratio may be increased while the ratio of low-playing
cost machines at traditional halls may be raised to increase the ability to
attract customers. 報告內容僅供參考，不得作為任何投資引用之唯一依據，且其投資風險及決定應由投資人自行判斷並自負損益。