AdvanexInc.(JP-5998)TokyoStockExchangeFirstSectionConcentratingonthecompetitiveprecisionspringbusiness,withincreasedrevenueandearningsexpectedforthistermalso(I)
  2015-07-22 提供機構：FISCO 作者：FISCO 點閱次數：14   

Advanex
Inc. is a major precision spring manufacturer that was established in November
1946. In July 2001 it changed the corporate name from KATO SPRING WORKS CO.,
LTD. to its current name. Also, in March 2004 it changed its listing status
from the Second Section to the First Section of the Tokyo Stock Exchange. From
the 1980s to 2000, due to its superior technology and development capabilities,
the company successively produced products that captured leading market shares
in both domestic and global markets. These included tape pads for audio tapes,
leaf springs for video tapes, shutters for 3.5 inch floppy discs, hinges for
mobile phones, and center hubs for optical discs. Subsequently, it shifted its
target markets from audio visual equipment and communications terminals, where
Japanese manufacturers of assembled products had lost their competitiveness, to
markets where demand was expected to be more stable. For one of those markets,
the medical device field, its coil springs for indwelling needles built into
medical equipment used in drawing blood and administering intravenous drips now
have a 60% market share in Japan. Also, its LOCKONE spring (formerly called
Tamont) which complies with NAS3350 (National Aerospace Standards) produced the
best results in testing of locking pieces for railroad bolts and nuts carried
out by the Railway Technical Research Institute. With
the financial crisis that occurred in September 2008, triggered by the collapse
of Lehman Brothers, Japanese manufacturers for the most part fell into the red.
It was an extremely harsh operating environment, suffering under an exchange
rate of ¥80 to 1USD in 2011. Advanex, from 2011, decisively undertook
structural reforms, including closing factories and selling off subsidiaries,
and succeeded in improving results and returning to profitability. At end-March
2015 it transferred the shares in its plastics business, Daiichi Kasei Holdings
Co., Ltd., to the Taiwanese ABICO Group. As a result, from FY3/16 the company
will focus on its core precision spring business. Given
the disappearance of the plastics business, FY3/16 results expect lower revenue
and earnings, with net sales of ¥19,800mn (down 32.9% y-o-y) and operating
income of ¥880mn (down 18.6% y-o-y). However, in a comparison of only the
precision spring business that excludes the plastics business, there will be a
12.3% rise in net sales and 14.4% rise in profits. Despite selling the plastics business, the business that
manufactures insert molding components, combining metal stamping and plastic
injection molding remained. Also, in April 2014 Advanex acquired and made a
subsidiary of Funabashi Electronics Co., Ltd., which possesses the most
advanced deep drawing processing technology in Japan in the field of metal
stamping fabrication. Subsequently, in April 2015 it merged operations by way
of a transfer of that firm’s operations. Currently, utilizing the Group’s
management resources and leveraging that technology, the benefits of that
acquisition are being engaged not only domestically but have also spread to
overseas.In the Mid-term Management Plan “Breakthrough to 2020”, that
covers the period from Fiscal 2015 to Fiscal 2019, the main theme is “Challenge
to the Comprehensive Metalworking Manufacturer”. It cites numerical targets in
its final year FY3/20 of consolidated net sales of ¥35,000mn and operating
income of ¥4,000mn. Advanex’s core business domains are in the high market
growth areas of automotive-, medical-, and infrastructure & housing
facilities equipment, where the company is highly competitive. At present, in
Honjo City, Saitama Prefecture, a labor-saving, automated Smart Factory
specializing in automotive components is under construction, and is expected to
be operational from the beginning of next year.◆Company Overview Selling the plastics business to become a precision
spring specialist ○ Scope of operations The breakdown of FY3/15’s ¥29,487mn in net sales by business for
Advanex, which is a major player in precision springs, shows 59.8% from the precision
spring business and 40.2% from plastics. However, given that it transferred the
shares it held in Daiichi Kasei Holdings Co., Ltd., that engages in the
plastics business at the end of the previous term, it will become solely a
precision spring business from FY3/16.○ Corporate history & operational milestones The
company was founded in 1930 when the first President established a specialist
spring factory in Tokyo. In 1946 it was reorganized as a kabushiki kaisha
(joint-stock company) under the name KATO SPRING WORKS CO., LTD., and changed
its name to the current Advanex Inc. in 2001. In 1964 it listed on the Second
Section of the Tokyo Stock Exchange, changing its listing status in 2004 to the
First Section of the Tokyo Stock Exchange. In 1976 it established its current key Kashiwazaki Factory (now
the Niigata Factory) as a production base. The company subsequently established
its Oita Factory in 2008, Aomori Factory in 2009, and Chiba and Miyagi
Factories in 2015. Currently, a specialist factory for automotive (products) is
under construction in Honjo City, Saitama Prefecture. The Saitama Factory is
scheduled to be completed in October 2015, and be operational in January 2016.From the 1980s the company has continuously produced products
that have been hits globally, with leading market shares. These include tape
pads for audio tapes (70% domestic market share), leaf springs for video tapes
(50% global market share), shutters for 3.5 inch floppy discs (80% global
market share), hinges for mobile phones (50% global market share), and center
hubs for optical discs (90% domestic market share). Currently, it has captured
a 60% domestic market share for springs in indwelling needles for use in
medical treatment.Overseas expansion was also
early, with the company establishing a subsidiary in the US in 1971.
Subsequently, subsidiaries have been established in Singapore, the UK, Hong
Kong, Thailand, China and Vietnam. The UK subsidiary that was established in
1988 became the European production base for the company’s shutters for 3.5
inch floppy discs that boasted an overwhelming global market share. That
subsidiary acquired a leading domestic UK spring maker, forming a two factory
structure. Its current core products are precision spring products for medical
devices and reinforcing components for fasteners for the aerospace industry and
automotive market. It has the highest profitability among Group companies. Strawberry Corporation, which
was a business department carved out of that company, listed on the JASDAQ
Exchange in 2001 when hinges for mobile phones became a hit. It recorded
consolidated net sales of ¥11,000mn and ordinary income of ¥900mn in FY3/05.
However, it fell into the red due to the market for clam shell mobile phones
shrinking significantly in line with the rise of smartphones, and in FY3/11,
with net sales having plunged to ¥2,500mn, ordinary losses of ¥1,000mn and net
losses of ¥1,800mn, became insolvent. This subsidiary was delisted in October
2011. In 1984 the company acquired FUJI MICRO CO., LTD., which is
engaged in the manufacture and sale of motors and motor components. Further, in
October 2007 it acquired shares in Daiichi Kasei Holdings, which manufactures
and sells automotive-related plastic and other components. As a result, in
FY3/08 consolidated net sales were ¥38,892mn. The ratio of net sales by
business was 52.5% for the precision spring business, 17.4% for the hinge
business, 15.3% for the motor business, and 14.8% for the plastics business.
Subsequently, as noted above, given that the market was virtually wiped out,
the company withdrew from the hinge business. Because adequate synergies were
not able to be created in the motor business, it transferred the majority of
its shares in 2011, switching it to an equity method affiliate. The acquisition
of Daiichi Kasei Holdings enhanced the company’s insert molding technology;
however, profitability was tight due to domestic and overseas cost competition
for its core large scale, stand alone plastic products business. Further, in
maintaining competitiveness it was necessary for the company to continue
significant capital expenditure. As a result, in July 2014 49% of the shares
were transferred to Taiwan’s ABICO Group, and in March 2015 the remaining 51%
were sold, the company choosing to focus on its core precision spring business.
The Taiwanese company has a large operational scale with production bases in 15
countries, sales bases in 20 countries and over 15,000 employees.With the global financial crisis that occurred in September
2008, triggered by the collapse of Lehman Brothers, Japanese manufacturers for
the most part fell into the red. The company also in FY3/09 recorded a net loss
of ¥3,595mn. All businesses, including the precision spring business, the hinge
business, the motor business, and the plastics business were mired in operating
losses. From the next term FY3/10, despite the precision spring and motor
businesses returning to profitability, losses in the hinge business expanded.
The plastics business finally recovered profitability in FY3/11.The company has withdrawn or sold off operations in the hinge,
motor and plastics businesses; however, it is strengthening its core precision
spring business. In April 2014 it consolidated Funabashi Electronics as a
subsidiary. Funabashi Electronics possesses superior technology in the field of
metal stamping fabrication, and this technology will not only be utilized in
the newly constructed Saitama Factory, but rolled out to overseas factories,
such as those in China and Thailand. Through cross-usage of the metal stamping
technology machinery and equipment of the Advanex Group, and utilizing its
sales and material procurement capabilities, the company can create Group
synergies.◆Business Strategy Mid-term Management Plan with ¥35bn net sales, ¥4bn in
operating income and 22% ROE ○ Breakthrough to 2020 Mid-term Management Plan In
February, the company announced its Breakthrough to 2020 Mid-term Management
Plan, covering Fiscal 2015-2019. The theme of the Mid-term Management Plan is
the “Challenge to the Comprehensive Metalworking Manufacturer”, with the key
elements being to: (1) invest aggressively for global business expansion, (2)
adopt a growth strategy with the automotive-related market as the core target,
(3) enhance R&D and increasing sales of the company’s products (standard
products), (4) expand technical domain and markets through M&A, and (5)
improve financial health and return to shareholders. For the final fiscal
period FY3/20, the company has cited numerical targets of ¥35,000mn in net
sales, ¥4,000mn in operating income, operating income margin of 11% and an ROE
of 22%. (1)
Invest aggressively for global business expansion In Japan, domestic demand is expected to shrink due to the
decreasing birthrate and aging population. Given that automobile manufacturers,
which are the company’s major customers, seek to supply globally, it is
essential that Advanex also proactively pursues global expansion. In April 2014
the company established a global business unit and will strengthen its Asian
strategy. Overseas the company has manufacturing and sales bases in the US, UK,
Mexico, Singapore, China (Shanghai, Dalian, Dongguan, and Changzhou), and
Vietnam, and is additionally planning some in India. Going forward, it is
expected that demand will expand in Vietnam and Indonesia. In Vietnam the
company has located a factory and sales base in the north in the vicinity of
Hanoi, and has engaged in the production and sales of precision spring products
for major Japanese-affiliated office automation and automotive parts
manufacturers. In the south, given that there are many clients that have
developed factories, the company has established a sales base in Ho Chi Minh
City also, and is endeavoring to find new customers, such as automotive parts
manufacturers. In Europe the company is planning to expand into Czechoslovakia
as a mainland base. Also, In Central and South America it is considering
expansion in Mexico (a second factory) and into Brazil. The company also has
received requests to enter local markets from automotive-related customers.Looking at the International Organization of Motor Vehicle
Manufacturers’ automobile production statistics by country for the last 10
years, growth in developing countries is remarkable. The 2014 global number of
cars produced was 89.75 million, a rise of 2.6% y-o-y. The number of cars
produced in Japan was 9.77 million, up 1.5% y-o-y. The 2014 level is a 15.7%
decline from 2007, which was the peak for Japanese automobile production;
however, globally there was a rise of 22.5%. Japanese production declined
significantly, the turning point being the September 2008 collapse of Lehman
Brothers, with yen appreciation and a shift to overseas production slowing any
subsequent recovery. While there is a sense that markets in developed countries
are mature, production in China and India, where there is remarkable growth in
domestic markets, is growing strongly. From 8.6% in 2005, the Chinese share of
global production numbers has expanded to 26.4% in 2014, with an automobile
production number of 23.72 million clearly distancing itself from the second
placed US with 11.66 million.The company’s net sales by region (excluding the plastics
business) anticipate the ratio represented by Japan declining to 33.0% in
FY3/20, after decreasing from 44.4% in FY3/14 to 40.4% in FY3/16. Despite
domestic sales being expected to increase, it is planned that overseas sales
will expand even more.Precision springs for automobiles are the best fit with
the company’s management culture (2) Adopt a growth strategy
with the automotive-related market as the core target The company has little direct competition in the field of
precision springs, since most major manufacturers of springs for automobiles
specialize in large-sized products such as chassis springs. The company’s
competition is from the 3,000 to 4,000 small- and medium-sized manufacturers.
These companies largely do not have the capacity to expand overseas. Once
adopted, despite being able to expect stable demand to the extent that
production continues, because it also affects human life, rigorous quality
control is essential. Further, continual cost cutting is demanded. Taking these
special business characteristics into consideration, precision springs for
automobiles are arguably the best fit for the company’s management culture.
Looking at net sales ratio by market (excluding the plastics business) the
company is planning to raise it from 30% in FY3/14 to 40% in FY3/20.Even though product
development and trial parts manufacturing are carried out domestically, there
are many calls for mass production overseas. The company’s Koriyama Testing
Center and Niigata Factory collaborate and are providing mass production
support for overseas factories. The Testing Center undertakes development
keeping in mind the process of automated manufacturing from the trial stage.
Staff from overseas factories experience training at the Niigata Factory,
making mutual understanding easy. Given that the Niigata Factory is well
acquainted with the facilities and production levels at overseas factories, it
is able to examine problem points in advance. Also, the fact that the same
machines are installed in Japan and overseas makes it possible to respond
worldwide. In order for the company to
expand its automotive business to another level it is constructing a specialist
factory in Saitama. One reason it chose Honjo City is the assumption that it
may expand dealings with Japanese and German parts makers. It is built to
combine an R&D function within the factory. It plans to obtain an
automotive industry ISO/TS 16949 quality management system. An outline of the
new factory shows that it sits on a 12,000 sq.m. site, with 5,000 sq. m. floor
space, an investment of around ¥1,300mn, approximately 30 staff, and estimated
production of ¥3,000mn in 2-3 years time. In addition to having some production
equipment transferred from existing domestic factories, NC forming machines and
other new equipment will also be installed. It will produce products including
wire springs, flat springs and deep drawing products. In addition to demand for
automotive fastening parts (insert collars) expanding in line with the trend
for lightweight vehicles, given that they are manufactured under a technique
called the multi-forming process whereby materials may be formed to width,
reducing the proportion of scrap and also allowing cuts and folds to be
completed in the one process, they realize, amongst other benefits significant
cost reductions compared to traditional machining processes, and thus are
positioned as strategic products for the company. The company is aiming for a
Smart Factory, where the manufacturing process is highly automated, with staff
cut to a bare minimum. By developing this specialist factory, the company aims
to raise its presence within the automotive industry and expand business. Looking at changes to the other net sales ratios by market from
FY3/14 to FY3/20, office automation equipment will fall from 30% to 20%,
medical devices will rise from 6% to 10%, infrastructure and housing facilities
equipment will rise from 5% to 10%, with other falling from 29% to 20%.
Compared to consumer electronics equipment, automotive demand is stable. Its
scale is also large. Conversely, trading partners are companies that are large
Tier 1 automotive parts makers, making it hard to pursue high profitability. On
the other hand, the flip side to the high levels demanded for medical device
and infrastructure and housing facilities equipment products is that if the
company can use its technological capabilities and secure a position as a
supplier, it may expect long-term demand. Product model changes are also
infrequent, and there is room to achieve high earnings.A good example of this is in the UK subsidiary's precision
spring products for medical devices. Representing over 40% of net sales, it
contributes to that subsidiary’s high earnings. Expanding into the medical
device business in 1977, in 1999 it received an order for springs used in
anti-asthmatic metered dose inhalers from a major European medical device
manufacturer, which provided the opportunity for it to take a major step
forward. Other companies’ products were unable to clear the basic standards;
however, springs developed at the Niigata Factory were passed, and succeeded in
securing the order. Manufacturing equipment was transported to the UK and mass
production commenced. The company intends to rollout this example of success in
the UK to other regions including Japan. Coil springs for indwelling needles,
which enjoy a 60% domestic market share, will apparently have no changes to
specifications for the next 10 years.The company’s products are
also on display in the infrastructure field. The LOCKONE spring (the former
product name for which was Tamont), which is a spring that prevents slippage on
nut and bolt threads, passed trials using impact vibration testing machines to
meet NAS3350 (National Aerospace Standards) standards. In the results of field
testing of half to one year by the Railway Technical Research Institute on
locking pieces for railroad bolts and nuts, the company’s LOCKONE produced the
best results. Further, it may be expected to also have applications for
anti-slippage for highway shielding and signposts. In places such as highways
where there is a lot of vibration, loosening in nuts and bolts occurs readily.
An anti-loosening function is embedded in other companies’ products; however,
it must be changed for each nut. In the company’s case, a Tamont may be easily
installed from above the nut using a commercially available socket wrench,
making for ease of operation, and also being inexpensive. The user may reduce
the frequency of inspecting for loosening. In the infrastructure and housing
facilities equipment market, it is being used for preventing loosening in nuts
used in items such as acrylic plates for balconies in newly constructed
apartments. Due to the complexity of the configuration, currently only the
company is able to mass produce LOCKONE. The President & COO, Mr. Tsuneo Shibano, states that if one
keeps pursuing good, easy to use products that customers are satisfied with,
the results will be that functional beauty will be apparent in the product and
it will become a work of beauty; LOCKONE exemplifies that sort of functional
beauty.(3) Enhance R&D and
increase sales of the company’s products (standard products) The
company is strengthening sales of standardized products via trading companies
and online sales. The product line-up has grown to more than 3,000. The LOCKONE
product noted above is also being sold. The company is also undertaking an
overseas rollout. In B2C retail sales the company wants to raise recognition
for it and its products, and is planning develop B2B, including overseas, and
link this to orders for custom-made products. Promote M&A aimed at
acquiring technology, and expanding sales channels and areas (4)
Expand technical domain and markets through M&A The
company’s M&As are aimed at acquiring technology, and expanding sales
channels and areas. Technologically,
while the shares in Daiichi Kasei Holdings, which carries out the plastics
business, were transferred, the company has retained its insert molding
business and the production equipment required for it. Insert
molding provides integrated forming of differing materials such as plastics and
metals. Advanex possesses complete metal plate stamping and plastic injection
technology, undertaking integrated production. Everything from the molds for
stamping and injection molding to automation equipment is designed and fabricated
within the company. As a result, product designs may be proposed to clients
that take into consideration assembly time reduction, miniaturization, making
products thinner, and precision enhancement. Production equipment for insert
molding products is planned to be shifted to the Saitama Factory upon
completion. Funabashi Electronics also, which was acquired in April 2014,
will utilize and roll-out that technology within the Group. Funabashi
Electronics possesses superior technology in the field of deep drawing
fabrication. Drawing fabrication usually involves a length of 3-4 times a
pipe’s caliber, with even what is termed deep drawing being around 10 times;
however, the company’s technology allows fabrication of lengths up to 30-40
times.Given that the scale of
Funabashi Electronics is less than 40 staff, global development was
problematic. Advanex will seek synergies within the Group, rolling out its deep
drawing fabrication technology domestically and also overseas in China,
Thailand and other locations. In the future also, the company will target
companies that possess superior technology, even if they are small in scale,
where synergies may be expected with the Group’s sales, proposal making or
technological capabilities. Apart from technology, the aim of M&As is to secure sales
channels in the medical field, where barriers to new entrants are high.
Further, to buy time in overseas markets the company will look for acquisition
candidates from both a sales and manufacturing base perspective. 報告內容僅供參考，不得作為任何投資引用之唯一依據，且其投資風險及決定應由投資人自行判斷並自負損益。