SoftbrainCo.,Ltd.(JP-4779)TokyoStockExchangeFirstSectionAmajorplayerinSFA/CRMsoftwarewithrecordhighinFY2014(theyearendingDecember31,2014)
  2015-05-11 提供機構：FISCO 作者：FISCO 點閱次數：6   

Softbrain <4779>
(hereafter, “the company”) is a major player in SFA (Sales Force Automation) / CRM
(Customer Relationship Management) software, which support resolving corporate
sales issues, and holds 20-30% of the domestic market share in the SFA field.
The field marketing business operated by its subsidiary company is developing
into a second core revenue stream. The company’s consolidated financial results for FY 2014, the year ending
December 31, 2014 (hereafter, “FY 2014”), recorded high for the first time in seven years with 11.7%
sales growth year-on-year (hereafter, “y/y”) to ¥4,934mn while operating profit
increased by 15.4% to ¥568mn, its first profit
increase in two years. Field marketing business sustaining its high growth
through expansion in the number of customers and share of trade, and earnings
recovery in systems development and other businesses contributed to the profit
increase. e-Sales Manager related business, however, reported profit fall due
to the accumulation of upfront investment including costs for development and
sales-promotion, though sales revenue increased steadily. The increase both in sales and
profit is projected to continue in FY 2015, with sales increasing by 9.4% y/y
to ¥5,400mn and operating profit by 14.3% y/y
to ¥650mn. In addition to field marketing
business in good condition, the company also aims to enlarge the number of
customers in its e-Sales Manager related business by advancing the product
development which will enhance the convenience. The company focuses on sales
growth in e-Sales Manager related business, and aims for double-digit sales
growth in this term while strengthening its partnerships with enterprises which
have strong sales channel for small- and medium-sized companies. The company does not plan to pay a dividend this term. The
company is currently considered to be in an investment phase in order to expand
its businesses, therefore its retained earnings will preferentially be
allocated to such areas as development investment and sales-promotion costs.
The company will consider reviewing its shareholder return policy in accordance
with its financial condition.◆Business Outline Cumulative total of
installation of the company’s product exceeds 3,000
companies, from large companies to small- and medium-sized companies The company’s operations are classified in
4 categories; e-Sales Manager related business, field marketing business,
system development business, and other businesses. The majority of both sales
and profit are coming from e-Sales Manager related and field marketing
business, which are the two main revenue streams. There are 5 consolidated
subsidiaries as of the end of December 2014, each of which business outlines
are as described in the table below.○e-Sales Manager related
business This includes sales of
licenses for SFA software named “e-Sales Manager”, cloud services, customized development, as well as sales
consulting and skills training. “e-Sales Manager” is a software tool which helps identify areas for improvement
and enhance sales efficiency by enabling users to grasp the situation
quantitatively and to visualize each process in sales activities, which are
described as process management of sales activities.Sales for e-Sales Manager can
be divided into two types; on-premises type which yields revenue from sales of
software licenses, and cloud type with which usage fees are collected. In
recent years, the majority of contracts have been cloud-type services that do
not require a capital expenditure burden and that can keep down the initial
installation costs. As for the cloud type, the company provides e-Sales Manager
Remix Cloud (¥6,000/month per user) as well as e-Sales
Manager nano (¥500/month per user), which is simplified
with functions usable for small- and medium-sized companies with 10 employees
or less. The domestic market scale of
SFA (Sales Force Automation) is approx. ¥5 to 8 billion, out of which the company is thought to hold a
share of 20-30%. Competitors include NI Consulting CO., LTD. (unlisted), and
Salesforce.com Inc. (cloud type only). Salesforce.com holds the top share with
more than 40% in the market of cloud-type SFA. The cumulative total of e-Sales Manager installation exceeds
3,000 companies, which consists of a broad range of companies from
manufacturers to service providers, from large companies to small- and
medium-sized companies. The unique selling propositions of the company’s product include, on top of its usability such as
user-friendliness and processing speed, compatibility to both on-premises and
cloud sales types, and that it is well-supported by services such as consulting
and educational services to help improve the outcome of installation.○Field marketing
business Field marketing business, which has been developed by a
subsidiary company named Softbrain Field Co., Ltd., mainly carries out field
activities at stores and market research using “casts” (registered staff members)
which consist mostly of housewives. It also provides services such as temporary
staffing of and referrals to “rounders” (field merchandiser) who carry out field activities as well as
shoppers’ databases collected by the company.Field activities mainly represent business negotiation, layout
of sales floors, and creation of point-of-purchase ads at retail stores when
consumable manufacturers launch new products such as food items and daily
commodities. Although these activities used to be accomplished by employees of
the manufacturer, outsourcing of the activities has become more popular for the
purpose of improving cost efficiency in sales promotion. There are more than
200 corporate customers including customers in the past with a broad range of
manufacturers for food and beverage and for healthcare-related products. The
number of “casts” exceeded 50,000 people as of the end of December 2014, and the
stores covered include various types of businesses such as drug stores and
convenience stores, with which nationwide coverage is one of the company’s strengths.Further, a new marketing support
service named “POB – Point of Buy” (which provides data on
reasons for purchase) was commenced in 2013 jointly with Credit Saison (8253),
a leading company in the credit-card industry. It provides more reliable
customer behavior analysis by enabling users to collect data such as reasons
for purchase of products in retail stores and/ or menu items ordered at
restaurants with receipts attached. It is structured in a way where customers,
on the other hand, are eligible to acquire the points on Eikyufumetsu.com
(points that never expire) by Credit Saison. The number of registered members
(consumers) exceeds 120,000 people and it is building the nation’s largest platform. ○Systems development
business Contracted software
development is undertaken by Softbrain Offshore Co., Ltd., a subsidiary
company. Divestiture of the subsidiary company in China was conducted in
September 2013 as a part of its business structural reforms though it keeps a
business relationship as a subcontractor, and the company continues to utilize
its Vietnamese and domestic near-shoring bases. ○Other businesses This includes business consulting, sales and support in
installation of smart devices, and educational services by Softbrain
Integration Co., Ltd., and planning, editing and publishing of sales
promotion-related publications by Diamond Business Planning Inc.◆Business Trends Increase in proportion of
stock-type (recurring) revenue from cloud and on-premises contracts (1) Overview of the results
for FY 2014 The consolidated results for
FY 2014 that were announced on January 30 showed growth in each category such
as sales by 11.7% y/y to ¥4,934mn, operating profit by
15.4% y/y to ¥568mn, and current profit by 17.5% to ¥578mn, also showed a decline in net profit by 35.4% y/y to ¥252mn, which means all the results surpassed those in the
previous term except net profit. In addition, all the results, including net
profit, exceeded the beginning-of-year forecast. The company recorded its
highest sales in seven terms (FY 2007: ¥4,546mn) with field marketing business as the driving force.
Although SG&A costs including sales-promotion costs and labor costs rose,
operating profit increased for the first time in two terms as a result of the
increased sales and the structural reforms to the systems development business.
Net profit declined, which is affected by the normalization of the tax burden
and the increased minority interest in conjunction with the increased income at
subsidiaries including Softbrain Field. An overview of conditions in each
business segment is shown below.○e-Sales Manager related
business In e-Sales Manager related
business, sales (for external customers, the same shall apply hereafter) grew
by 5.9% y/y to ¥2,386mn, while segment profit declined by
17.2% to ¥229mn. e-Sales Manager Remix Cloud,
which constitutes approx. 40% of this business, achieved double digit growth
y/y in sales due to the steady development of new customers through incremental
enhancement of functionality. Moreover, there was an increase in cases of
orders for the various consulting services such as sales education &
training and Process Management College, which accounts for approx. 20 to 30%
of the business, in parallel with installation of e-Sales Manager which
resulted in a y/y double digit increase in profit. On-premises type,
conversely, recorded large-scale deals in 2013, therefore its results remained
unchanged. Segment profit were down for the second consecutive period, for
which the main reasons are the increased prior investment in such areas as
development to enhance the functionality of e-Sales Manager, and sales
promotion to acquire customers. The sales ratio for stock-type services, which
includes cloud services and maintenance services for on-premises contracts,
rose to around 50% of this business and the stability of revenue base is
steadily improving.○Field marketing
business Field marketing business
maintained high growth, with sales increasing by 26.4% y/y to ¥1,652mn, and segment profit by 18.0% y/y to ¥300mn. It receives high evaluation marks from their customers on
their service quality and the cost-efficiency. Accumulated continuous projects
with its primarily-targeted consumables manufacturers including
pharmaceuticals, foodstuffs, and commodities and acquisition of periodic
large-scale deals contributed to the increase in profit. Although revenue contribution
from POB business which commenced in February 2013 is yet small, the number of
registered members exceeds 120,000 people and it is steadily building a
platform with a high usage value for corporate marketing analysis. A website
named RECEIPO was established in October 2014 which introduces products in the
form of a ranking with reviews by real customers who have bought the product,
and it aims to further expand this business by acquiring more members. Similarly, the rounder human
resources business that was launched in March 2013 (temporary staffing of and
referrals to field support staff) is also achieving a certain result as in
deals made with more than 50 companies, and it is expected to contribute to
revenues in the future. Despite the increase in segment profit, the profit margin fell
slightly from 19.5% to 18.2%, which is thought to be affected by intensified
competition and higher costs in conjunction with the launch of new businesses.
However, the company persists maintaining profitability in comparison to peers
in the field marketing industry.○Systems development
business The results of the system
development business showed sales increased by 2.3% y/y to ¥430mn and segment profit at ¥0.04mn (¥56mn loss in the previous
year) which means it turned into the black slightly. Against the backdrop of the recovery in IT investment and the
chronic shortage of human resources required for development, the temporary
staffing business, in which development personnels are dispatched to corporate
customers, performed favorably which resulted in increased profit. In terms of
profit and loss, moreover, the reduction in fixed costs by the divestiture of
the subsidiary development company in China in addition to the fact that the
impact of the unprofitable project, which was generated in the previous term,
took a round, contributed to the improved profit.○Other businesses Results in other businesses
showed sales increased by 7.0% y/y to ¥465mn
and segment profit increased by around 6 times to ¥36mn. Softbrain Integration
performed strongly, benefiting from the cross-selling effects between e-Sales
Manager and operational consulting & educational services utilizing smart
devices such as iPad . Softbrain Integration was certified in Apple Consultants
Network in July 2014 for its achievement in introducing iPad to organizations.
It continues to develop professional services with leading-edge information and
technologies as an Apple certified IT consultant. Publishing business at Diamond Business Planning also recorded
an increase in both sales and profit due to the increased demand for corporate
publications.Profitability indicators,
such as operating profit margin, ROE, and ROA, exceed 10% (2) Financial position and
management indices Examining the financial
position at the end of December 2014, total assets increased by ¥478mn y/y to ¥4,145mn. Items that mainly
impacted the rise and fall are; cash and deposits increased by ¥619mn, sales receivables and deferred tax assets decreased by ¥40mn and ¥71mn respectively. On the other hand, liabilities
at the end of the term rose to ¥1,134mn with a ¥189mn increase. Interest bearing liabilities increased by ¥30mn and each of arrears, advances received, and notes and
accounts payable slightly increased in conjunction with business expansion. Net
assets have grown to ¥3,011mn with a ¥288mn increase including ¥248mn in retained earnings and ¥35mn in minority interest. Looking at the main management indices, all the indices
including the current ratio, shareholders’ equity ratio and debt/equity ratio which indicate stability
slightly worsened compared to the end of the previous term, however, it can
still be said that the company has maintained financial strength. Each
indicator of profitability, such as ROA, ROE, and the operating profit margin,
are more than 10%. However, there has been a noticeable decline in ROE due to
the enhancement of shareholders’ equity in conjunction with
the increase in profit, therefore it seems that the company will be required to
be committed to maintaining and improving its capital efficiency.◆Future Outlook An increase in sales and
profit is expected from the high growth in the field marketing business (1) FY 2015 Outlook Consolidated result in FY 2015
(the year ending December 31, 2015) projects that sales will rise by 9.4% y/y
to ¥5,400mn, operating profit by 14.3% to ¥650mn, current profit by 12.3% to ¥650mn, and net profit by 18.7% to ¥300mn. In addition to field marketing business continuing high
growth, the company also aims to enlarge the number of customers in its e-Sales
Manager related business by strengthening functionality on a continuous basis.
System development business and other businesses are forecasted to remain
unchanged y/y. This year’s efforts for the two core
businesses are as described below. Aims to increase the number
of customers both for cloud and on-premises type while enhancing functionality (2) e-Sales Manager related
business The company aims for a more
than 10% sales increase (y/y) for e-Sales Manager related business this year.
Their strategy is to proactively invest in product development pursuing “SFA with No.1 usability”
and to increase the number of customers both for cloud and on-premises type
while enhancing functionality. Function enhancement was implemented four times in the previous
year all of which were highly evaluated by customers. The design of its smart
phone version was renewed in January this year to improve user-friendliness.
The company plans to strengthen its product competitiveness by continuous
function enhancement as shown below.The company’s strategic direction for new
business development is to focus particularly on developing its main market
segment such as small- and middle-sized companies, for which the company aims
to further strengthen partnership with other companies, which has been
intensified since the previous term, and also to actively invest in
sales-promotion including Web advertisement.Although its profit may stagnate as a result of the increased
development costs and sales-promotion costs, the company gives customer
acquisition the greatest priority in this business. This is because it is
projected that installation of SFA software as a tool for sales productivity
improvement will be accelerated hereafter along with the popularization of
smart devices in business corporations. The number of domestic companies that
have installed SFA is said to be approximately 20,000. Since there are approx.
3-4 million corporate entities domestically out of which 1 million entities are
estimated to have a sales division, SFA penetration rate yet remains at a small
percentage therefore there is a significant growth potential.New large-scale deals and
growth in the rounder human resources business are expected (3) Field marketing business This term’s sales figures in field marketing business are expected to
greatly increase by 20% y/y. In addition to expected new large-scale deals for
field support, growth in the “rounder” (field merchandiser) human resources business is projected. The driving forces behind its
growth in field support operations are its competitive advantages such as
customers’ cost-effectiveness due to the high
quality of the company’s services and its service
charges on a per-visit basis*,
and its extensive and rapid job performance as a result of deploying 50,000
casts throughout the nation. It is projected to continue the high growth for
the time being aided by the growing trend toward outsourcing of field support
operations in the market. In addition, there is an
increasing demand for competent in-house field support staff with high value
experience in the context of the growing shortfall in human resources in a
number of industries. Sales figures in the rounder human resources business,
which was launched in March 2013 in order to meet those needs, is expected to
account for approx. 15% of the entire business. Although the profitability is
projected to become less than in the past because its temp services take up the
majority between temp services and referral services, it is expected to
contribute to the company’s business expansion. Moreover, the POB business is
smoothly expanding services not only for consumables manufacturers but also for
restaurant chain companies. It launched a service where customers can browse
shoppers’ insight information in comparison with
similar products of other companies (purchased products, reasons for purchase,
stores where purchased, comparative products, etc.) collected from approx.
120,000 membership base at low cost, and can also browse information on each
category - in May 2014 for consumables manufacturers and in June 2014 for the
restaurant industry respectively. Since the information such as buying motivations and product
evaluations can be collected in a short time from actual product buyers, the
value of this service as a corporate marketing tool is expected to grow in the
future. It is thought that it will take a few more years before the business
expands to the extent that it has an impact on revenues, though it is expected
to grow into one of the stable revenue streams as it is a stock-type business.◆Plan of Shareholder
Return Flexible dividends based on
operating results The company sets their basic shareholder return policy as “flexible dividends depending on its stage of growth and
operating results while focusing mainly on enriching retained earnings ratio in
order to strengthen its corporate financial position and to promote business
development in the future”. The company did not pay
divideds in FY 2014 (the year ending December 31, 2014) as it judged that
neither of its reserves nor profit are yet at the level where dividends can be
paid. Currently no dividend is planned for FY 2015 (the year ending December
31, 2015) neither, which is because, as was noted above, the company is
currently in the investment phase in such businesses as e-Sales Manager and new
businesses, therefore its policy is to actively invest retained earnings in
development of these businesses and in sales promotion. In the future, however,
the company will consider reviewing its shareholder return policy in accordance
with the changes in economic environment and its financial condition. 報告內容僅供參考，不得作為任何投資引用之唯一依據，且其投資風險及決定應由投資人自行判斷並自負損益。