DaikokuDenkiCo.(JP-6430)TokyoStockExchangeFirstSectionH1FY3/15salesgrew,profitsdeclined,andbothexceededtheCompanyforecasts(II)
  2015-03-19 提供機構：FISCO 作者：FISCO 點閱次數：9   

◆Financial results trends Although the pachinko industry continues to contract,
Daikoku Denki’s sales have recovered (1) Performance over the past
five fiscal years In FY3/11, the Company’s
sales shrank y-o-y because of restrained consumer spending and the impact of
the Great East Japan Earthquake. Since then, the Company’s sales have rebounded even though the pachinko industry has
continued to consolidate. This recovery was led by the Information System
Segment, which holds high market shares for its products.The Company’s equity ratio, a measure of
financial stability, has remained high, reflecting large retained earnings, and
rose to 59.8% in FY3/14. The current ratio, which indicates the ability to make
payments in the short term, hit 183.8% in FY3/14, mainly due to large holdings
of cash and deposits. The ROE, a measure of capital efficiency, has remained
above 10% since FY3/13. Thus, the Company is financially strong.Sales grew, profits declined, both surpassed company
forecasts (2) H1 FY3/15 Results In H1 FY3/15, Daikoku Denki’s consolidated sales grew by 7.8% y-o-y to ¥27,892mn, but its consolidated operating profit fell by 12.7% to
¥2,170mn, its consolidated recurring
profit dropped by 12.7% to ¥2,235mn, and its consolidated
net profit weakened by 4.6% to ¥1,472mn. The Company had
projected profit declines due to its up-front capital investment, and compared
with its initial forecast, sales were 3.3% higher and operating profit was
44.7% higher. In the Information System
Segment, sales of peripheral equipment for hall computers, such as information
disclosure systems and card reader (CR) units, were stronger than the Company
had forecast, supporting the growth of Segment sales. In the Control System
Segment, sales were smaller than planned and dropped y-o-y because the rate at
which customers reused old parts increased. A y-o-y increase in the sales
weighting of the highly profitable Information System Segment supported a rise
in the Company’s overall gross profit margin in H1
FY3/15, but a 45.4% y-o-y upturn in R&D expense led to a decline in the
operating profit margin to 7.8% from 9.6% in H1 FY3/14. Nonetheless, operating
profit in H1 FY3/15 was larger than the Company had forecasted, largely because
the recognition of some expenses originally planned for H1 in the Control
System Segment was postponed until H2. The financial strength of the Company improved in H1 FY3/15. The
Company’s interest-bearing debt decreased by ¥200mn, relative to its debt at the end of FY3/14, while retained
earnings increased. These changes lifted the equity ratio to 62.7%, and the
current ratio rose to 198.3% at the end of H1 FY3/15.In H1 FY3/15, the Information
System Segment increased its sales by 17.1% y-o-y to ¥18,217mn, but segmental operating profit before adjustment
dropped 6.3% to ¥2,618mn. The Segment sold 72
hall computers in H1 FY3/15, down from 90 sold in H1 FY3/14, but it sold more
peripheral equipment for hall computers, such as VEGASIA CR units and BiGMO
PREMIUM call lamps, than it had forecast, leading to overall sales growth.
Sales of the Management Support Service or MG service, which was promoted by
the Segment, grew 19.3% y-o-y to ¥1627mn in H1 FY3/15, due in
part to an increase in the number of halls that use the DK-SIS. Operating profit in the
Information System Segment decreased y-o-y in H1 FY3/15 for two main reasons:
1) R&D expense increased 77.1% y-o-y as the Segment developed a
next-generation hall computer, and 2) the Company changed its profit model for
CR units, which enjoy brisk sales, by lowering the profit margin on sales of
the units in exchange for the increase of monthly management fee of information
collected by these units. This change of profit model reduce the profitability
of the products sold, though the Company can earn continuous after-sales fee
income, so this change does not reduce the Company’s overall profitability. In the Control System Segment, sales declined by 6.3% y-o-y to ¥9,675mn in H1 FY3/15, and operating profit before adjustment
dropped 27.4% to ¥369mn. The number of display
units sold increased substantially y-o-y, but sales of other products declined
because makers of pachinko and pachinko slot machines increased their rates of
reused parts to lower costs. Thus, overall sales and profit decreased. The
Segment profit was ahead of the Company’s forecast, and this was due to the postponement of some of the
Segment’s R&D cost, originally budgeted for
H1, to H2.Taking a conservative stance, the Company maintained its
original forecasts for FY3/15, but the Information System Segment could exceed
the Company’s projections (3) Company Forecasts for
FY3/15 For FY3/15, Daikoku Denki maintained its original forecasts,
projecting a 3.4% y-o-y drop in consolidated sales to ¥55,000mn, a 43.8% fall in operating profit to ¥3,000mn, a 45.2% decline in recurring profit to ¥3,000mn, and a 39.0% downturn in net profit to ¥2,000mn.The Company assumes that the
Japanese market for pachinko and pachinko slot games remains about the same
size in FY3/15 as it was in FY3/14. However, it foresees a decrease in overall
sales, due to the slowdown of the sales of the BiGMO PREMIUM call lamp launched
in H2 FY3/14, which was a big seller last fiscal year, and conservative
estimate of the sales of peripheral equipment for hall computers. The Company forecasts profit
declines for FY3/15 reflecting several factors in addition to its forecast of a
sales decrease. For one, it plans to raise its R&D expense by 28.6% y-o-y
to ¥4,700mn in FY3/15, primarily to develop a
next-generation hall computer system. Furthermore, the Company plans to
increase its sales promotion expense to improve the sales of its pachinko slot
machines, and it expects to increase its outsourcing costs. As the Information System
Segment generated more sales than planned by in H1 FY3/15, the Company
acknowledges that the Segment may also achieve more sales than it forecasts for
FY3/15. However, sales by the Control System Segment have lagged behind company
expectations, and the launch of a new pachinko slot machine scheduled for H2
FY3/15 could be delayed. Consequently, the Company maintained its original
forecast of total sales for FY3/15. Furthermore, profits in H1 FY3/15 were
inflated by the cut-off error of some costs originally scheduled to be
recognized in H1. Therefore, the Company kept its original projections of
profit declines for FY3/15. ◆Company History Built a solid business foundation as the leading company
in the pachinko industry The predecessor of Daikoku
Denki was established in Osaka City in 1964 by Shinji Kayamori, the father of
Daikoku Denki’s current president, Hideyuki Kayamori.
Initially, the Company was a sales agency for electronic calculators. It then
branched out into the sale of magnetic counters and developed devices to count
the coins inserted into baseball pitching machines at batting centers. In 1968,
it developed a device to count the balls in a pachinko machine, its first
venture into the pachinko industry. In 1974, the Company entered the hall
computer business, and since the 1990s, as pachinko and pachinko slot machines
have become more electronic, the Company has supported the growth of the
pachinko industry by supplying superior hall computers, which have become the
most important tool for operating halls efficiently. In 1990, the Company developed
the DK–SIS service, the membership information
service for pachinko halls, and the pachinko industry’s first call lamps, which display information about Jackpot
machines. In 1991, the Company began selling Data Robo terminals, which provide
information about varieties of pachinko machine models to fans of these
machines. By developing such revolutionary equipment for managing data and
disclosing information, the Company contributed to the efficient operation of
pachinko halls, increased the pleasure of pachinko fans, and supported the
sales and profits of the pachinko industry. By the mid-1990s, the Company had established a position of the
leading company in the pachinko equipment market, but in 1996, the pachinko
industry changed the regulations pertaining to pachinko machines, and scrapped
about 700,000 pachinko machines that judged to be too conducive to gambling and
considered socially inappropriate. This caused a sharp drop in sales in the
pachinko industry and at the Company, which lost about 100 employees that year.
During such a trying period, the current president, Hideyuki Kayamori entered
the Company. He had studied information technology at Kyoto University’s graduate school and he is not only planning to expand current
business base but also envisions next generation business by utilizing the vast
amount of data the Company had accumulated.With the aim of converting
pachinko and pachinko slot games into socially acceptable forms of amusement,
in 2006, Daikoku Denki established as a subsidiary pachinko slot machine maker,
Daxel Inc., and began developing its own pachinko slot machines. Daikoku Denki listed its
shares on the Second Sections of the Tokyo Stock Exchange and the Nagoya Stock
Exchange in November 2002. In April 2004, it elevated its listings to the First
Sections of both exchanges. In 2014, the Company celebrated its 50th year and
became a member of the Japan Economic Federation as the first member with
business centering on the pachinko equipment industry. ◆Growth Strategy Three business reforms to promote growth over the medium
to long term The Company is taking the
following three steps to achieve growth over the medium to long term. 1) Developing the
next-generation hall computer In FY3/14, the Company started
developing the next-generation hall computer system, which will operate on a
cloud server and be capable of advanced analysis of Big Data. Unlike previous
hall computers, the next-generation computer will be able to gather and analyze
data on customer behavior and to recommend actions to improve sales and
profits, thereby contributing to the growth of the pachinko hall industry. This
capability could also be applied to other business areas. From FY3/15 to
FY3/17, the Company plans to invest about ¥5bn in R&D, primarily to develop the next-generation hall
computer, although it has not announced a date for the initial sales of this
computer. By launching sales of this computer, which will be far superior to
any other such machine, the Company aims to expand its sales as Tokyo prepares
to host the Olympic Games in 2020. Over the long term, the Company plans to
raise its share of the Japanese market for hall computers to 50%. In September
2014, the Company expanded its Kasugai Division Office in Aichi Prefecture to
help it increase its market shares in information systems. 2) Converting business model
to stock type revenue model The Company is changing its
Information System Segment’s business model to stock type
revenue system which collects service fees after the sale of such equipment.
This change allows the Company to sell its hall computers and peripheral
equipment at low prices, thereby increasing its price competitiveness and its
market shares while after-sale service fees will be stable source of earnings. 3) Expanding the in-house
developed pachinko slot machines In-house developed pachinko slot game machines are another
growth driver planned by the Company. The first commercially successful model,
Magical Suite Prism Nana, was the first such machine in the industry
incorporating original characters and unique view of the world. Subsequent
models will emphasize stories, not just number of balls; and by adding
entertainment contents with plot in pachinko slot machines, the company is
planning to convert the pastime to a more socially acceptable form of
amusement. Profitability will be the immediate goal of this business, and in
the medium term, the Company aims for a market share of 5–10%. Toward this end, it plans to invest heavily in development.◆Shareholder Returns If net profit surpasses the Company’s forecast, the dividend may be increased The Company’s policy is to pay an annual
dividend of ¥40 per share and to supplement this
payment depending on its profits. For FY3/15, the Company plans to pay an
interim dividend of ¥10 per share and a year-end
dividend of ¥30 per share for a total dividend of ¥40 per share. However, if the Company’s net profit exceeds the Company’s forecast for FY3/15, the dividend may be increased. 報告內容僅供參考，不得作為任何投資引用之唯一依據，且其投資風險及決定應由投資人自行判斷並自負損益。