ChiomeBioscienceInc.(JP-4583)TSEMothersStrengtheningtheR&D;frameworkinthefieldofpandemiccontagiousdiseases
  2015-04-27 提供機構：FISCO 作者：FISCO 點閱次數：11   

Chiome Bioscience Inc.
<4583> (subsequently, “the company”) is a biotechnology company that discovers antibodies for
medical applications using a proprietary technology discovered by RIKEN. It
also supports the research and development of such antibodies by other
entities. This technology, called the ADLib® (Autonomously Diversifying Library) system, has three distinct
features: 1) it can generate antibodies for a wider range of antigens than most
conventional methods, 2) it generates antibodies faster than other methods, and
3) it can be applied to tough antigens for which it is tough to generate
antibodies by other methods. In its consolidated operating
results for the nine-months ended December 31, 2014 (FY12/14, an irregular
nine-month fiscal year), Chiome Bioscience reported consolidated net sales of
\277 million and an operating loss of \865 million, mostly in line with the
company’s plan. Net sales were \253 million in
the drug discovery alliance business and \23 million in the licensing out
platform technology business. On the development front, the company worked to
develop antibodies for pandemic contagious diseases using its original ADLib® system. It is drawing attention for successfully generating
antibodies that demonstrate reactivity to specific antigens of the influenza
and Ebola viruses. For FY12/15, the company is
forecasting net sales of \670 million and an operating loss of \1,967 million.
The projected net sales include \300 million planned for the licensing out
anti-semaphorin 3A, the first project of the lead antibody licensing business.
On the other hand, the increase in operating loss is based on an expected significant
increase in R&D costs from \574 million in FY12/14 to \1,489 million in
FY12/15 due to strengthening of the R&D framework, including in the area of
pandemic contagious diseases. To strengthen its R&D framework, from June 2015 the company
will launch operations at a new research facility in KING SKYFRONT, an area of
Tonomachi, Kawasaki City that has been designated as a National Strategic Zone.
R&D personnel will be boosted with 40 new staff, and development efficiency
improved by setting up a framework that includes animal testing. In the domain
of pandemic contagious diseases, the company is developing its business with an
eye on joint research with specialist U.S. institutions and the future movement
in this area will be a point of focus. By strengthening its R&D framework,
the company aims to license out the fully human ADLib® system in FY12/16 to achieve profitability for the first time
with net sales of \3,452 million and operating income of \651 million.◆Company Description Technology for producing
fully human antibodies now completed to the level of practical implementation (1) ADLib® System The ADLib® system, the company’s core technology, was developed by RIKEN as a method for
antibody discovery in 2002. Today, the patent rights to it are shared equally
by the company and RIKEN. Simply stated, the ADLib® system promotes DNA recombination (gene conversion) in the
antibody locus of DT40 cells, a cultured cell line derived from chickens, to
generate the antibody protein library. Then, using magnetic beads, the system
collects only the cells that bind to the target antigen. Antigen-specific
antibodies can be harvested by culturing those cells for about a week.Most of the therapeutic monoclonal antibodies now on the market
were discovered by one of two conventional methods; the mouse hybridoma method
or the phage display method. The table below shows the differences between
these existing technologies and the ADLib® system.The generation of fully human antibodies has been a big
challenge in the past. However, on March 2014, the company announced that it
had completed its technology for producing fully human antibodies and this
appears to have opened the way for full-scale commercialized use of human ADLib® system. The fully human ADLib® system is able to generate human antibodies as drug candidates
by humanizing chicken antibodies by replacing antibody genes in a DT40 cell
line established from chicken lymphocytes with artificial human genes. As it
only lags behind compared to existing methods in terms of its practical use for
generating fully human antibodies, this achievement has been seen as extremely
significant toward the company developing its business in the future.Development of three business
models centered on the Fully Human ADLib® System as a core technology (2) Overview of Business
Structure With the ADLib® system as its core
technology, the company operates three business models.The drug discovery alliance
business generates new antibodies using the ADLib® system, mainly for therapeutic drugs, in collaboration with
pharmaceutical companies around the world. The company’s sales consist of upfront income when a joint R&D contract
is concluded, milestone income reflecting R&D expenses and progress, and
royalty income after a drug is marketed. In this business, in principle the
company retains at least a 50% share of the right to a developed antibody, so
it provides greater added value than conventional consigned or commissioned
drug development. The Chugai Pharmaceutical <4519> Group is the main
collaborative research partner for this segment (business with this group
accounted for 56.9% of the company’s
total sales in FY12/14). The licensing out platform
technology business is the second pillar. Here, the company licenses the ADLib® system to other companies, which use this technology to
generate antibodies. From this business, it obtains upfront income when a
licensing contract is concluded, annual license fees, milestone income
reflecting the progress in the development of antibodies discovered using the
ADLib® system, and royalty income after a drug
is marketed. Currently, Fujirebio Inc. is the only licensee, having a license
to use the ADLib® system for the discovery of
antibodies for in-vitro diagnostic agents. The third pillar, the lead
antibody licensing business, is the licensing of antibodies that have been
developed by the company in the discovery or pre-clinical stage. These
antibodies are generated using the ADLib® system for target antigens obtained through joint R&D or
business agreements with universities, public medical institutes and companies
with proprietary technology, such as Biotecnol,Ltd.* In the future, this business model will
generate upfront income from licensing agreements, milestone income reflecting
progress in antibody development, and royalty income after a drug is marketed,
supplementing the company’s revenue from the other two
businesses. The ADLib® system is patented in Japan, the U.S., Europe, and China. The
patent rights are shared equally by the company and RIKEN and it pays royalties
to RIKEN. This patent will expire in Japan, Europe and China in 2023, and in
the U.S. in 2025. But the company has been applying for relevant patents,
including the patenting of the fully human ADLib® system. Thus it should retain a competitive advantage for the
ADLib® system even after the existing patent
expires. The table below shows the main partners in each business and the
purposes of the agreements.Integrated Expertise from
LivTech Expected to Promote Development of Novel Therapeutic Antibodies (3) Subsidiary LivTech, Inc. In December 2013, the company
invested about ¥90 million for a 52.9% stake in LivTech,
Inc., making the company a subsidiary. LivTech has been developing antibodies
for cancer stem cell antigens and has two development pipelines. For one
pipeline, it licensed one of these lead antibodies to Yakult Honsha Co., Ltd.
<2267> in 2011 for use in cancer therapy and is conducting joint R&D.
For another, LivTech is now seeking a pharmaceutical company as a partner for
the development of a medicine based on its other lead antibody. The company acquired LivTech
to obtain its expertise in the pre-clinical stage development of antibodies and
its expertise from its experience in actual licensing of antibodies, and it
also gained access to LivTech’s animal facility. By
combining LivTech’s expertise with its antibody
production technology based on the ADLib® system, the company will be able to accelerate its development
of antibodies to counter the antigens. At a Board of Directors’
meeting held on March 13, 2015, the company resolved to make LivTech a
wholly-owned subsidiary, with the goal of strengthening the Group management
framework and speeding up decision-making.◆Business trends Consolidated operating
performance for FY12/14 mostly in line with company plans (1) FY12/14 Results On February 13, 2015, the
company announced its consolidated results for FY12/14 (April to December)
reporting sales of ¥277 million, an operating loss
of ¥865 million, an ordinary loss of ¥883 million, and a net loss of ¥863 million, and the results were roughly in line with company
forecasts. As the period was an irregular nine-month fiscal year, year-on-year
comparisons are not possible, however, looking at a comparison for the same
period of the previous fiscal year, net sales declined by \57 million and
operating loss increased by \416 million. The decline in net sales reflected a
decline in income in the drug discovery alliance business, while the increase
in operating loss reflected increases in R&D costs and other SG&A
expenses. Trends according to business segment were as follows.○Drug discovery alliance
business In FY12/14 (April to
December), sales were ¥253 million (compared to ¥324 million in the same period last year) and segment income was
¥164 million (208 ¥million). Sales to the Chugai Pharmaceutical Group declined
y-o-y, but R&D activities are going ahead steadily in line with the plan,
and in December 2014 the company extended its agreements for both contract
research and joint research. Also, the subsidiary LivTech, which is involved in
joint research on cancer treatment antibody LIV-2008* with Yakult Honsha, succeeded in reaching
the development milestone and so received milestone income from Yakult Honsha
in 3Q FY12/14 (October-December 2014; the amount is undisclosed). The company also started to
sales activities in FY12/14 towards concluding a verification agreement
relating to the fully human ADLib® system in addition to the
conventional ADLib® system. ○Lead antibody licensing
business The lead antibody licensing
business does not currently record sales as it is at the stage of progressing
joint research into various antibodies in the development pipeline with
university research laboratories. In FY12/14 the company renewed joint research
agreements with the laboratory of Professor Goshima in Yokohama City University
and the laboratory of Professor Takahashi in the University of Tokyo, and also
started new joint research projects with the laboratory of Professor Uemura in
Nagoya City University and the laboratory of Professor Takei in Yokohama City
University. Among them, anti-semaphorin 3A is the company’s first lead antibody candidate and it is advancing joint
research with Professor Goshima’s laboratory in Yokohama City
University. They started drug efficacy tests from mid 2014 using an animal
model for human diseases toward an inflammatory diseases model (sepsis model)
and indications in the area of oncology. In the oncology domain, semaphorin 3A
(SEMA3A) is known to promote migration and infiltration of cancer cell. If
anti-SEMA3A can be shown to suppress this activity, there will be wide ranging
potential for commercialization as a pharmaceutical product. Currently,
experiments at the cell level have shown a suppressive effect.Also, the R&D project to develop an antibody indicated for
cancer research with Biotecnol, which is a technology alliance partner, is
proceeding well, advancing by one stage, from generating antibodies to
verifying functions and so forth.○Licensing out platform
technology business In FY12/14 (April to
December), sales were ¥23 million and segment income
was ¥23 million. Fujirebio Inc., which is the
company’s original ADLib® system licensee, launched a diagnostic kit in Europe that
included an antibody from the ADLib®
system for measuring vitamin D (used for diagnosing rachitic patients), and the
company is receiving royalty income based on its sales. ○R&D Conditions In R&D cost initiatives
for FY12/14, the company focused on expanding its library by advancing level of
diversification of the fully human ADLib® system. The company also drew attention to the widening
possibilities for the ADLib® in the field of generating
antibodies by announcing that it had successfully used the original system to
generate antibodies for specific antigens of the influenza and Ebola viruses in
a short time period. Investing funds from capital
increases in FY12/14 and FY03/14 into R&D (2) Financial condition The balance of total assets at
the end of December 2014 was up ¥1,244 million compared to the
end of the previous fiscal year (March 31, 2014), to ¥6,257 million as shown in the table. The main reason was an
increase of cash and deposits due capital increases through a public offering
and a third-party allotment. Liabilities declined ¥35 million compared to the end of the previous fiscal year, to ¥417 million, primarily because of a decrease in interest-bearing
debt. Net assets increased ¥1,280 million. This was
attributable to an increase of \1,085 million in capital stock and capital
reserve following the public offering and third-party allotment, which more
than offset the downturn in retained earnings of \863 million attributable to
the net loss for the period. Currently, the company is in the upfront investment stage, with
sales declining slightly as the R&D cost burden in increasing as the
company works towards practical implementation of the ADLib® system. The company is projecting a return to profitability
from FY12/16 onwards, and is planning to cover its R&D costs, operating
costs, and so forth, with the funds gained through capital increases in FY12/14
and FY03/14. Currently the company’s
cash reserves are over the \5,000 million level, so it should have enough
financial capacity to last for another two years or so, even if sales do not
grow. However, investors should bear in mind the risk that the company may need
to procure further funds by some means if the ADLib® system is still not commercialized after FY12/17.◆Growth strategy Significantly increase
R&D costs to accelerate R&D activity aimed at realizing the management
vision The company has announced a mid-term management plan covering
the three-years up until FY12/16. Projected earnings and segment sales are
shown in the graph below. FY12/15 is still positioned as an upfront investment
stage, including technological improvement of the ADLib® system. Full scale recovery of the investment is expected from
FY12/16. Assumptions for the earnings forecasts for each fiscal year in the
plan are as shown below.(1) Results forecasts for
FY12/15 ○Forecast by segment In its forecast for
consolidated operating results for FY12/15, the company is projecting net sales
of \670 million and an operating loss of \1,967 million. Looming at the sales
plan by segment, in the lead antibody licensing business, sales from licensing
out the anti-semaphorin 3A antibody are expected to be \300 million. The
company’s plan for anti-semaphorin 3A is to
accumulate data from drug efficacy tests using animals, which are currently in
progress, during the first half of the year, and then seek to conclude a
contract in the second half. As noted above, the target areas are the
inflammatory diseases model (sepsis model) and indications in the area of
oncology, however the oncology field is a higher priority and the company is
likely to seek a contract in this area first. The field of pancreatic cancer
looks promising, with its high risk of cancer metastasis. The company appears to have
various candidates for out-licensing in and outside Japan. Looking ahead, it
needs to provide data results demonstrating efficacy as well as clear analysis
of the mechanism of action. Steady progress on these tasks should make it
possible for the company to conclude a contract in FY12/15. Conversely, if
sufficient data demonstrating efficacy cannot be obtained and so forth, there
is a possibility that contract negotiations will be held up. In the drug discovery alliance
business, the company is projecting sales of \321 million, continuing at the
same pace with commissioned and joint research with the Chugai Pharmaceutical
Group is expected to continue. In the licensing out platform technology
business, sales are expected to be \49 million, with continued sales to
Fujirebio along with new contracts with other companies. ○R&D trends The reason the company is projecting an increase in its
operating loss for FY12/15 is a significant increase in R&D costs from \574
million in FY12/14 to \1,489 million in FY12/15. To accelerate R&D
activities towards realization of its management vision*, the company will enhance its R&D
framework a step further by establishing a new R&D facility at KING
SKYFRONT, an area of Tonomachi, Kawasaki City.KING SKYFRONT has been
designated as a National Strategic Zone. Global corporations and research
institutions have established bases there and the area is rapidly developing a
platform for open innovation. Looking ahead, the areas seems a likely recipient
of support from national and local governments. The company will set up its
base within the Innovation Center of Nanomedicine iCONM, which is scheduled to
start operation in April 2015. The center is themed on realizing “nanomedicine” to achieve innovative
treatments for difficult diseases, and universities, corporations, and research
institutions are planning to establish bases there. They are expected to
develop synergies within the iCONM center. With 40 R&D staff, the
company has established a full-line development framework to cover all aspects
from antibody generation through to animal testing. The R&D framework is
scheduled to begin operation from June. In addition to enhancing the R&D
framework, the system is expected to improve development efficient and speed.
Moreover, going forward, the addition of development pipelines and the development
management structure will become important. The company has fully introduced a
product management system in 2015 and in March it brought in outside personnel
with knowledge of product management. The company will strengthen its
development management system at the same time. The company intends to maintain
its existing research facility within the head office. In other areas, the company is
developing its business in the domain of pandemic contagious diseases, with an
eye on joint research with specialist U.S. institutions. As mentioned above, in
2014 the company announced that it had achieved generation of antibodies
demonstrating reactivity to certain protein antigens of the influenza virus and
specified antigens of the Ebola virus (antigens deactivated to counter
contagion risk) in a short time using its original ADLib® system. This result reconfirms that strengths of the ADLib® system, namely acquisition of diverse antigens and acquisition
of antigens in a short time. Ordinarily it takes around
seven or eight months to generate an antibody and make it into a therapeutic
vaccine after obtaining an antigen. With the ADLib® system this process can be completed in just a few weeks. In
the event of a pandemic, such a system is vital for developing a vaccine as
quickly as possible after the disease breaks out to prevent it from spreading.
This factor alone is likely to increase the advantages of the ADLib® system. The company is considering options for joint research and other
initiatives relating to use of the ADLib® system for generating antibodies with multiple institutions,
including specialist U.S. institutions with biosafety level 4* research facilities that possess the
highest class of pandemic threat pathogens, and is keen to begin technological
evaluation (in which the partner provides the target pathogen and the company
generates an antibody). If technological evaluation were to start, the effect
on the companies operating performance would depend upon whether it would bear
all of the R&D costs alone or bear a portion of them as a joint R&D
project, and the costs have not been factored into the company’s business plan for FY12/15. However, if this initiative goes
ahead smoothly, it will bear watching, if only because it could ultimately lead
the company to license out the ADLib®
system technology as quickly as possible.Profitability to be achieved
in FY12/16 by licensing out the fully human ADLib® system (2) Forecast for FY12/16 ○Forecast by segment In its operating results
forecast for FY12/16 the company is expecting to achieve profitability for the
first time with net sales of \3,452 million and operating income of \651
million. The company also plans to make sales of \2,378 million in the
licensing out platform technology business, mainly from expected sales of
around \2,000 million from licensing out the full human ADLib® system. The amount for licensing out
the system has been estimated based on similar cases in the past. As a schedule leading up to
the licensing out of the fully human ADLib® system, the company first aims to concluded several
verification agreements in 2015, and is currently at the stage of negotiating
with candidate corporations in Japan and overseas, while sharing data with them
under non-disclosure agreements. Having concluded the verification agreements,
the company will proceed with negotiations for concluding the main agreement
while continuing the actual technology evaluation. In the lead antibody licensing business, the company plans to
achieve sales of \460 million from licensing out its development pipelines and
\614 million from an increase in contracting companies in the drug discovery
alliance business. Furthermore, the company is forecasting R&D costs at the
same level as FY12/15.◆Risks and Return to
Shareholders The company does not plan to
pay a dividend until it has established its earnings base and financial
soundness. (1) Risks We see the following potential
risks to the business of the company. ○Risk of delays in
licensing agreement negotiations and R&D Should there be a delay in
licensing agreement negotiations with client candidates or should a rupture of
the agreement occur, or, should the licensing of lead antibodies not progress
as expected due to delays in R&D, or should the development be abandoned
during the course of the drug development, there is the risk that these events
could impact on the company’s performance in the future. ○Superior technologies
could be developed If a technology far superior to the fully human ADLib® system for producing antibodies or other new technologies are
developed, this system may not be able to maintain its competitiveness in the
market.○High dependence on a
single customer is potentially dangerous The Chugai Pharmaceutical
group <4519> accounted for 57.1% of the company’s total sales in FY12/14. If the business relationship with the
group deteriorated for some reason, the company’s performance would be threatened. In December 2014, the company’s contracts with the Chugai Pharmaceutical Group for joint
research and contract research using the original ADLib® system had each been extended. (2) Returns to shareholders As the company still carries cumulative losses, it will not pay
a dividend in the near future. However, after it establishes a basis for stable
profits, its policy is that it will pay dividends that reflect its improved
financial condition and business performance. 報告內容僅供參考，不得作為任何投資引用之唯一依據，且其投資風險及決定應由投資人自行判斷並自負損益。