Heliostechnoholding(JP-6927)TokyoStockExchangeFirstSectionSteadyrecoveryinbusinessresults,withfourbusinessesstartingtocometothefore(II)
  2015-02-09 提供機構：FISCO 作者：FISCO 點閱次數：13   

◆Financial Analysis and Performance Trends Room for Improvement in ROE, Focus On Whether Profit
Margins Improve (1) Financial Analysis The company achieved a high return on equity (ROE) of 13.1% in
FY3/14. However, this was due to net income being elevated by extraordinary
income and tax effects. With the elimination of these special factors in FY3/15,
the balance of ordinary income and net income is expected to return to normal,
and on this basis the company has estimated its ROE for FY3/15 at 5.4%.This ROE figure is lower than the average for a Japanese
corporation, and there is significant room for improvement. Looking further
into the situation, the low level of the ROE is clearly related to the company’s low net income margin. Looking further up the income
statement, the forecast operating income margin for FY3/15 is only 5.2%. This
is the difference between the gross profit margin of 27.0% and the SG&A
margin of 21.8%. During its time as a lamp specialist, the company achieved an
average profit margin of over 30% and an SG&A margin of less than 20%. If
these ratios can be improved, then ROE can also be expected to improve.Net Sales for 1H FY3/15 Were Affected by Shifting the
Recording of a Large Transaction to 2H, Profits Exceeded Forecasts (2) Financial Results for 1H
FY3/15 In the company’s financial results for 1H FY3/15 (April to September 2014), net
sales were \5,604mn, up 6.3% year-on-year (YoY), operating income was \125mn,
down 28.8% YoY, ordinary income was \89mn, down 57.4% YoY, and net income was
\191, down 46.6% YoY. The company revised its business forecasts ahead of its
financial results announcement. Compared to its initial plan, net sales did not
reach \695mn, but profits all exceeded their respective initial targets for
operating income of \45mn, ordinary income of \42mn, and net income of \168mn. Net sales were lower than planned due to shifting the recording
of a large transaction for manufacturing equipment to 2H. On the other hand,
profits exceeded initial plans, helped in part by a decline in the cost of
sales for inspection equipment and strong performance from Techno Provider.FY3/16 May See a Large Transaction Recorded (3) Consideration of
Performance in FY3/15 and from FY3/16 Onward Full-year forecasts for FY3/15
are unchanged from initial forecasts for net sales of \14,000mn, up 8.5% YoY,
operating income of \740mn, up 42.3% YoY, ordinary income of \650mn, up 4.5%
YoY, and net income of \400mn, down 55.0% YoY. In addition to the shift in
the recording of a large transaction for manufacturing equipment from 1H to 2H,
the lamp business and the human resource service business have continued to
perform stably in 1H. As a result, there is little likelihood of a major
fluctuation in business results for FY3/15. The company’s performance in FY3/16 will be of greater interest. Looking at
the balance sheet for 1H FY3/15, inventory assets increased by \5,805mn since
the end of FY3/14. In the liabilities section by comparison, long-term
borrowings and advances received have increased, but this relates to a large
order received for used manufacturing equipment. This seems likely to be
recorded as sales in FY3/16, which could cause a significant fluctuation in the
company’s business results. It is important to bear in
mind that this large transaction is an exception, and is not an order that the
company can receive continuously. Moreover, being a large transaction, there is
a high risk of the revenue being recorded in another period, as we have just
seen in 1H. Finally, since the business is dealing with China, it is necessary
to monitor the situation closely as regards collection of payment. If this large transaction can be safely completed, the company’s expansion of business scope in the used manufacturing
relocation business will gain further momentum. Currently, the business is
mainly related to LCD displays. However, with changes in products and advances
in technology, such as touch screen panels and organic EL, the movement in
supply and demand surrounding used equipment is expected to continue. We
believe this could become a growth engine for the company.◆Shareholder Returns Possibility of Dividend Increase in FY3/16 with Earnings
from Major Project The company’s basic method of returning profits to shareholders is through
dividends. The company has not announced an official level for dividends.
However, looking at past dividends, it is clear that the company has basically
paid a stable dividend, increasing it in line with profit growth. On the other
hand, at times when the company has made a loss, it has been obliged to reduce
the dividend or not pay one. Earnings per share for FY3/15 will decline in the absence of
special factors, however the company’s
main business is performing steadily in terms of net sales and operating
income, and the company plans to pay a dividend of \10—the same level as the previous year. In FY3/16, the above
mentioned large order may elevate earnings temporarily. Based on the company’s past record, expectations for a dividend increase may well
rise. 報告內容僅供參考，不得作為任何投資引用之唯一依據，且其投資風險及決定應由投資人自行判斷並自負損益。