MIROKUJYOHOSERVICE(JP-9928)TokyoStockExchangeFirstSectionSustainableGrowthandEstablishmentofaNewEarningsFoundationDriveRecordEarnings(I)
  2015-01-27 提供機構：FISCO 作者：FISCO 點閱次數：18   

Miroku Jyoho Service Co., Ltd.
<9928> (hereafter “MJS”) is a market leader in developing and providing Enterprise
Resource Planning (ERP) systems including financial accounting and tax systems
for tax accountant and CPA firms and small/mid-sized companies. During 1H FY3/15 (April – September 2014), MJS reached record high 1H earnings for a
fourth consecutive year. Net sales were up 6.1% year on year (YoY) to
\11,263mn, ordinary income was up 13.4% YoY to \1,339mn. Sales of products and
services for small/mid-sized companies benefitted from replacement demand among
existing customers as well as efforts to develop new customers, increasing by a
double-digit rate to drive overall performance. Furthermore, sales of products
for tax accountant and CPA firms were flat YoY. Demand for the products among
existing customers is in a declining trend. MJS’s consolidated FY3/15 business forecasts were left unchanged
from the initial plan with net sales forecast to increase 2.3% YoY to
\22,590mn, and operating income up 4.9% YoY to \2,540mn. The rate of progress
on these targets during 1H was 49.9% for net sales and 52.7% for ordinary
income, with both figures above their recent three-year averages (net sales
48.5%, ordinary income 47.5%). Recent orders have also been at a healthy level,
and we believe there is a high likelihood that the company will exceed its targets.
The 3rd Medium-Term Management
Plan (three-year plan) that started from FY3/15 has management targets of net
sales of \26,000mn and ordinary income of \4,000mn for FY3/17, the final year
of the plan. MJS strives to reach its targets by sustainable growth in its
existing businesses, expanding its sales force,building an earnings foundation,
and developing and offering new products and services to create new customers. In new businesses, MJS has newly established the subsidiary MJS
M&A Partners Co., Ltd. The subsidiary will go into new businesses that
support business succession and revitalisation of small/mid-sized companies.
Moreover, the company is also focusing on achieving further profitability in
its Internet business, primarily through the business information website,
bizocean, which has some 1.3 million members. Meanwhile, MJS concluded a
capital and business alliance with the South Korean IT company Webcash Co.,
Ltd. in October, 2014, and established a joint venture. MJS will change the
specifications of the financial management and asset management services of
Webcash to meet the needs of Japanese small/mid-sized companies and will also
promote joint development of new services. With these three new businesses, the
company is aiming to achieve net sales in FY3/17 of \2,500mn and an ordinary
income margin of 30%, and development will be a focus going forward.◆Corporate Overview Long-Established Innovator of
Financial and Accounting Systems for Tax accountant and CPA Firms and
Small/mid-sized Companies (1) Corporate History Since its establishment in 1977, MJS has been providing
management systems and management information services, primarily for finance
and accounting, and changing its business model in step with the times The
company previously focused on providing data processing services at processing
centers, and developing and selling office PCs. Now, MJS develops and provides
package software and management information services. It has built up a
long-established position in the Japanese market as an innovator in developing
and providing management systems. Currently, MJS concentrates on developing services
compatible with cloud computing and multi-devices, which are a new wave in
technology.Business Model Leveraging
Strong Trust Relationship with Accounting firms (2) Operational overview MJS’s current business model,
includes development and sale of ERP (comprehensive operations management)
systems for tax accountant and CPA firms, small/mid-sized companies, as well as
provision of services associated with system installation such as instruction
on system settings and operation, and network development, as well as
operations, maintenance, call centers and other support services.MJS’s main customers are tax
accountant and CPA firms and their clients, small/mid-sized companies. In its
business for tax accountant and CPA firms, MJS has around 8,400 user firms,
representing a share of approximately 25% of the industry. In its business for
small/mid-sized companies, there are nearly 17,000 companies that use MJS
software. Moreover, MJS also provides simplified accounting software for small
businesses via tax accountant and CPA firms, with over 30,000 users. If we
consider that the number of small and medium-sized clients of these accounting
firms is in the order of 500,000, there is still significant room to exploit
this market.Expanded Recurring Earnings
from Established Customer Base by Strengthening After-Sales Services (3) Business Trends In the last few years, MJS has focused simultaneously on new
customer acquisition, achieving earnings growth from stock-type management that
flows from after-sales services such as software, hardware and network
maintenance services, and its call center, which operates 24 hours a day 365
days a year. As a result, earnings continue to grow while profitability
increases, and have more than doubled over the past five years on an ordinary
income basis.◆Financial Result
Trends Half-Year Sales and Profits
Increased for a Fourth Consecutive Half-Year Period, Reaching Record Highs (1) Consolidated Financial
Results for 1H FY3/15 Consolidated financial results
for 1H FY3/15 (April to September, 2014), announced on October 31, 2014, showed
an increase in both sales and profits for a fourth consecutive half-year
period, reaching record highs. Net sales were up 6.1% YoY to \11,263mn,
operating income up 12.6% YoY to \1,302mn, ordinary income up 13.4% YoY to \1,339mn,
and net income up 20.6% YoY to \813mn. Furthermore, both sales and profits
exceeded the company’s target. Factors behind the increases were brisk sales of ERP systems and
various services for small/ mid-sized companies, as well as solid performance
in sales of products for tax accountant and CPA firms, which outperformed
initial expectations for a decline due to demand from existing customers being
in a declining trend. Furthermore, the operating income ratio increased 0.7 of
a percentage point YoY to 11.6%, and looking at the breakdown of the change,
the main factors were a rise in the gross profit margin by 0.1 of a percentage
point and an improvement in the SG&A expenses ratio by 0.6 of a percentage
point. In SG&A expenses there were increases in personnel and advertising
expenses, however efforts to decrease other expenses and the effect of higher
earnings contributed to the overall improvement.○System Installation
Contract Revenues by Customer System installation contract
revenues (total of hardware, software, and useware sales) increased 4.5% YoY to
\7,288mn overall. By customer type, growth in sales to small/mid-sized
companies was a major factor in the increase. Sales to small/mid-sized
companies increased 10.3% YoY to \3,557mn while sales to tax accountant and CPA
firms increased 1.0% YoY to \2,806mn. Moreover, order backlog of sales as of
September 30, 2014 grew steadily on a non-consolidated basis to 4.01 month’s worth, up 0.2 month’s
worth YoY. Strong sales of MJSLINK NX-I,
a system for SMEs (launched in April 2013),continued to benefit from brisk
replacement demand from existing customers, as well as steady progress in
development of new customers, which has been bolstered over the past few years.
Sales to new customers were up 20.3% YoY to \984mn, representing 27.7% of
system installation contract revenues from sales to companies (up 2.3
percentage points YoY). Moreover, Galileopt NX-I, a system for mid-sized
companies (launched in February 2012), saw only a slight growth in sales. Meanwhile, the lifecycle of major products is around five years,
and the ACELINK NX-Pro for tax accountant and CPA firms is about to enter the
fourth year since its launch (April 2011). The company had therefore factored
in a slight decline in sales due to a fall in replacement demand, however,
sales were firm, rising 1.0% YoY. The main factor in the rise was continued
replacement demand.○Service revenues Service revenues increased steadily, with sales rising 7.7% YoY
to \3,752mn. Service revenues has become a recurring income-type business that
earns stable monthly income, and therefore contributes to increased stability
of the company’s revenues. Looking at the breakdown of
service revenues, all services for small/mid-sized companies outperformed
initial plans. Software operations support services for small/mid-sized
companies (maintenance services) grew 13.7% YoY to \1,599mn due to an increase
in new customers. Software usage fees for the small businesses (iCompass NX and
ACELINK NX, etc.), which are supplied to client corporations of tax accountant
and CPA firms, also grew 16.3% YoY to \412mn atop an expansion in the number of
contracted companies (approximately 35,000 companies). Meanwhile, the total
maintenance service for tax accountant and CPA firms, TVS, also performed
strongly, with sales rising 2.1% YoY to \905mn.○Sales Trends by Product
Category Looking at sales trends by product category, sales of major
software products grew 2.1% YoY to \4,461mn while service revenues rose 7.7%
YoY to \3,752mn, driving higher earnings. Others sales increased 36.5% YoY to
\222mn, continuing a high level of growth that has continued for the past few
years. This was mainly attributable to the popularity of the business
information website, bizocean, which achieved over 1.3 million registered
members, with an attendant rise in advertising revenues from the website. MJS
operates bizocean for employees and employers in small- and mid-sized companies
and business people.Improving Financial Status by
Reducing Interest-bearing Debt (2) Financial Status Looking at the company’s financial status at the end of 1H FY3/15, total assets had
declined \1,039mn from the end of FY3/14 to \18,344mn. The change reflected an
increase in cash and deposits of \501mn due to an increase in profits, while in
negative factors investment securities declined by \1,064mn, inventory by
\154mn, and software assets by \163mn. In particular, the decline in
investment securities was caused by a decline in the price of shares held in
one of the company’s business partners. The
company in question was listed in January 2014, and the valuation amount of its
available-for-sale securities had increased significantly as of March 31.
Subsequently, however, the share price fell, and the valuation amount was
written down. This was the main factor in the decline in investment securities.
Incidentally, the valuation difference on the available-for-sale securities
included in net assets as of Q3 FY3/14 was \146mn, rising to \1,807mn as of the
end of FY3/14 and \1,009mn as of 1H FY3/15. Furthermore, the current share
price is at a higher level than at the time of investment, and there is very
little risk of MJS recording a loss on sale going forward. Meanwhile, looking at liabilities, total liabilities declined by
\872mn in total to \6,126mn. Interest-bearing debt, both short- and long-term,
has declined by \310mn since the end of FY3/14, while trade payables, etc.,
income taxes payable, and others also declined. In net assets, total net assets
decline by \166mn to \12,218mn, mainly due to the abovementioned decline in
valuation difference on available-for-sale securities (-\798mn), which outweighed
increases in capital surplus of \338mn, as well as a decline in treasury shares
following the exercise of stock options (+\309mn).Over the last several years, strong earnings growth along with
the reduction of interest-bearing debt expanded net cash flow (cash on hand +
short-term investment securities – interest-bearing debt) as of
the end of 1H 3/15 to over \3,000mn. Moreover, the equity ratio has also been
rising steadily, increasing from 55.8% as of the end of FY3/12 to 66.4% as of
the end of 1H FY3/15, showing that the company’s financial structure has been improving in line with its profit
growth.Higher Sales and Profits
Expected for FY3/15 by Developing New Customers (3) Business Outlook for
FY3/15 The FY3/15 consolidated
business outlook is net sales up 2.3% to \22,590mn, operating income up 5.4% to
\2,520mn, ordinary income up 4.9% to \2,540mn, and net profit up 8.7% to
\1,510mn, for the fourth consecutive fiscal year of sales and profits
increases. MJS is also aiming for an even more profitable structure, with an
operating income ratio of 11.2%. The company has left its initial forecasts unchanged; however,
looking at the progress rate through to end of 1H, net sales are at 49.9% and
ordinary income at 52.7%, both higher than the averages for the past three
years (net sales 48.5%, ordinary income 47.5%). Order backlog of sales of
system installation contracts is 4.01 months on a parent basis (+0.2 months
compared with the end of last fiscal year). We therefore believe that there is a
high likelihood that the company will exceed its targets.Looking at system installation contract sales by customer, we
expect sales to tax accountant and CPA firms to decline in 2H as replacement
demand declines. For sales of ERP systems for small/mid-sized companies, we
expect further increases in sales as sales promotions for acquiring new
customers to take effect. Efforts to develop new customers include the launch
of a new TV commercial campaign from July, and other efforts to increase
recognition, as well as the opening of a new office in Otemachi, Tokyo in
August to further strengthen sales activities in the central Tokyo area. We
believe these sales measures will begin to bear fruit from 2H. Furthermore, in
service revenues, which is a business based on recurring income from an
established customer base, MJS is expecting to continue expanding its customer
base through further development of new customers. 報告內容僅供參考，不得作為任何投資引用之唯一依據，且其投資風險及決定應由投資人自行判斷並自負損益。