MeikoNetworkJapan(JP-4668)TokyoStockExchangeFirstSectionMeikoGijukureturnstogrowthpathasstudentnumbersgainYOY
  2015-08-26 提供機構：FISCO 作者：FISCO 點閱次數：5   

On
July 10, 2015, Meiko Network Japan Co., Ltd. announced its consolidated results
for the first three quarters (from September 2014 through May 2015) of the
fiscal year through August 2015 (Q1- Q3 FY8/15). Consolidated Q1-Q3 net sales
increased 19.0% year on year (YOY) to ¥13,102mn and operating income was up
2.1% YOY to ¥2,135mn, both almost according to plan. The consolidation of MAXIS
Education, the largest Meiko Gijuku franchisee, as a wholly owned subsidiary,
drove double-digit net sales growth. Sales were otherwise flat, however,
reflecting the impact of forward investments in other businesses. Still,
measures to revitalize growth for the Meiko Gijuku business gradually bore
fruit, with the number of students increasing 0.4% YOY through the end of May,
reversing seven consecutive quarters of declines. In
other businesses, solid demand for childcare and after-school activities for
elementary students contributed to steady growth for Meiko Kids Schools, which
opened three facilities. All other operations expanded steadily, including
Meiko Soccer Schools, Waseda Academy Kobetsu Schools, and Waseda EDU Japanese
Language School, which became a subsidiary. The
company has retained its consolidated full-year forecasts for FY8/15 of net
sales increasing 24.8% YOY to ¥19,420mn and operating income rising 2.5% to
¥3,500mn. Although the private tutorial school market continues to face intensified
competition, the company is bolstering its infrastructure to rekindle growth
for Meiko Gijuku operations. Efforts include deploying a unified area strategy
with directly operated and franchised schools and reinforcing initiatives to
enhance customer satisfaction at the Meiko Support Center. Internationally, the
company announced a joint venture with a Taiwanese company in June to cultivate
private tutorial schools locally. Other overseas efforts include running
private tutorial schools in South Korea and kindergartens for Japanese children
in Singapore. Taiwan is the third country outside Japan that the company has
entered. It will be worth keeping tabs on progress down the track. For FY8/15, the company plans to keep increasing dividends per
share, raising them by ¥2.0 to ¥34.00 (for a dividend payout ratio of 41.5%).
Management seeks to gradually increase the ratio to 50%. Based on a valuation
of ¥1,400 per share at the close of trading on July 17, the gross investment
yield per share unit, including shareholder special benefit plan (under which,
each holder of 100 shares or more as of the end of August receives a ¥3,000 QUO
card as a gift), was in the 4% level, significantly higher than the average
dividend yield of around 1.5% for listed Japanese companies. This underscored
the company’s active stance on returning profits to shareholders.◆Description of Businesses
A leader among private tutorial schools, Meiko Gijuku
Schools is the company’s core business Meiko
Network Japan’s main business is Meiko Gijuku Schools. Some of these schools
are operated directly, but most are franchised. Meiko Gijuku is the leading
brand of private tutorial schools in Japan. Through a subsidiary, Tokyo Ishin
Gakuin (Tokyo Medical School Preparatory Institute), Meiko Network Japan also
operates a preparatory school business specializing in preparation for medical
university. In addition, the company engages in various other educational
service businesses. Among
its other businesses outside tutorial and supplemental education are Meiko
Soccer Schools for children. There is also Waseda Academy Kobetsu Schools, which
provides tutorial instruction to junior high school and high school students
seeking entry into prestigious high schools and universities. Meiko Kids
Schools provides nursery care for preschool children and after-school care for
elementary school children. Waseda EDU, which serves overseas students, is a
subsidiary acquired in October 2014. The company’s subsidiary YouDEC Co.
publishes a magazine featuring information about the content of entrance
examinations for junior high schools and high schools, produces model
examination questions, sells educational materials to students of private
schools, and offers private instruction to students at their schools. In
addition, YouDEC’s subsidiary, Koyo Shobo Co., is involved in the academic
publishing business. As detailed in the bar chart below, in Q1-Q3 FY8/15 the Meiko
Gijuku business (directly operated and franchised operations) is the core
source of the majority of Meiko Network Japan’s total consolidated sales and
profits. The company’s policy described in its medium-term strategy calls for
extending the growth of the Meiko Gijuku business while developing other
educational businesses.◆Business Trends Consolidating MAXIS and other factors boosted Q3 revenues
and earnings (1) Overview of Q1-Q3 FY8/15 On July 10, 2015, the company announced its consolidated
operating results for Q1-Q3 FY8/15 (September 2014 to May 2015). Consolidated
net sales rose 19.0% YOY to ¥13,102mn, operating income increased by 2.1% to
¥2,135mn, ordinary income was up by 9.3% to ¥2,358mn, and net income rose by
8.4% to ¥1,486mn. The consolidation of MAXIS added ¥2,144mn to net sales,
¥218mn in operating income, and ¥107mn to the amortization of goodwill. Waseda
EDU boosted ¥144mn to net sales and had a minor impact on operating income when
including goodwill amortization. After excluding new consolidations, the
company basically maintained the results of the previous corresponding term.In the third quarter (March to May 2015), while the number of
students at the core Meiko Gijuku business rose 0.4%, the first gain in seven
quarters, it is also worth noting that school system-wide sales were up 0.7%
YOY, the first gain in 10 quarters. With competition in the private tutorial
school market continuing to intensify, the company’s revenues had stagnated
since FY8/13. Several initiatives to regenerate growth, however, have gradually
proven fruitful. They have included such internal and organizational reforms as
integrating directly operated and franchise schools and qualitatively and quantitatively
enhancing communication with students and guardians through the new Meiko
Support Center. Despite a slight decline in school numbers, the company will
likely regain growth once earnings per school improve.The ratio of the cost of sales to sales was 65.0%, up 2.2
percentage points YOY, the principal cause being a higher personnel expense
ratio from the acquisition of MAXIS. The SGA expenses ratio was 18.7% up 0.5 of
a percentage point, but this was due mainly to an increase in amortization of
goodwill for the consolidation of subsidiaries MAXIS and Waseda EDU (up ¥130mn
YOY to ¥145mn). With that factor excluded, the ratio would have been negative
0.5 of a percentage point. The share of profit of entities accounted for using
the equity method was up ¥68mn, while the gain on sales of investment
securities and reversal of loss on valuation of investment securities rose ¥53mn,
increasing non-operating income ¥156mn.Even after factoring out the consolidation of
subsidiaries, the Meiko Gijuku directly operated business achieved higher
revenues and earnings (2) Business segment trends ○Meiko Gijuku directly operated business Sales
in the Meiko Gijuku directly operated business segment increased by 45.8% YOY
to ¥7,125mn, and segment income increased by 27.8% YOY to ¥986mn. The MAXIS
contributions were ¥2,144mn in sales, ¥218mn in operating income, and ¥107mn in
amortization of goodwill. Even without these contributions, net sales would
have risen 1.9% YOY to ¥4,981mn, with segment income gaining 13.4% YOY to
¥875mn. After excluding MAXIS, the number of directly operated schools
increased by 3 YOY to 221 reflecting transfers from franchisees. The number of
students as of the end of May advanced 3.6% YOY to 15,660. The average number
of students per school was up by 1.5 YOY to 70.8, while sales per student also
improved slightly, underscoring greater profitability per school. Measures to
increase student numbers are gradually delivering results, including efforts to
share information on successes in new student admission counseling, communicate
better with students and guardians, and deploy an integrated area strategy with
franchised schools. Progress in cost reductions has augmented efforts to boost
revenues and boost earnings. MAXIS has 90 directly operated schools, each with
an average 70.5 students at the end of May, for a total of 6,350.○Meiko Gijuku FC business Sales
in the Meiko Gijuku FC business segment decreased 8.9% YOY to ¥4,329mn. Segment
income declined 2.9% to ¥2,054mn. Including
the 90 of MAXIS, the number of franchised schools as of the end of May declined
8 YOY to 1,901, and the number of students was down 0.1% YOY to 102,853. The
main factor in stagnant student numbers was a downturn in the Kyushu area,
where competitions has continued to intensify. The number of students dropped
by 477 YOY in Kyushu, while the number rose by 533 in other areas. Still,
compared with the decline of 1,604 as of the end of February, the pace of the
decline in the Kyushu area has slowed greatly, and there are signs that the
downturn is beginning to bottom out. On top of that, the average number of
students per school increased by 0.2 YOY, to 54.1, the first rise in four
years. This indicates that measures to increase student numbers at franchised
schools have begun bearing fruit, albeit belatedly compared with directly
operated ones. From FY8/15, the company restructured organizations by area.
This made it easier to deploy area campaigns jointly with directly operated
schools, notably producing leaflets to solicit students. While stepping up
activities to attract students, the company has been able to reduce costs for
franchised schools.○Preparatory school business Sales in the preparatory school business that Tokyo Ishin Gakuin
(Tokyo Medical School　Preparatory Institute)
operates increased by 1.2% YOY to ¥424mn. Segment income dropped 3.3% to ¥34mn.
Though revenues continued declining through Q2 FY8/15, there was a payoff from
focusing on consultations with students and guardians for medical university
entries and from advertising on websites for medical professionals and in
specialist magazines, with new admissions surging for spring 2015. Q3 FY8/15
alone, segment sales rose 20.2% YOY and segment income was ¥7mn (from a ¥14mn
loss in Q3 FY8/14). The number of students at the end of May was up 26 YOY to
151, the highest number of students at that time of the year since Tokyo Ishin
Gakuin became a subsidiary.○Other businesses Sales
for other businesses increased 36.1% YOY to ¥1,222mn. The segment loss was
¥123mn, up from ¥54mn a year earlier. By
operation, Meiko Soccer Schools posted sales of ¥102mn (¥96mn in Q1-Q3 FY8/14)
and an operating loss of ¥11mn (¥18mn in Q1-Q3 FY8/14). The number of directly
operated schools decreased by 1 YOY to 14, for a total of 16 schools, including
two franchised ones. However, the total number of students for directly
operated and franchised schools combined expanded to 1,003, at the end of May,
up 134 YOY. The issue in increasing school numbers continued to be finding
futsal courts for practice. Sales
from Waseda Academy Kobetsu Schools were ¥256mn (¥190mn in Q1-Q3 FY8/14), and
the operating loss edged up to ¥29mn. This was despite an increase in sales,
and was due to operating system expenses, which had been recorded as corporate
expenses, being allocated to business segment expenses from FY8/15. Excluding
this factor, the segment saw a slight increase in income. The number of
directly operated schools was 6 (up 3 YOY). The number of franchised schools
was 10 (down 4 YOY), and the number of Waseda Academy directly managed schools
was 9 (up 3 YOY). The number of students at the end of May climbed to 1,525 (up
422 YOY). A key factor in the student number growth was the track record the
schools have built as many students have passed entrance exams for highly
selective junior high and high schools. There was a reduction of four
franchised schools; two of the four are directly operated by MAXIS and now
count as directly operated. Sales from Meiko Kids Schools expanded from ¥44mn a year earlier
to ¥78mn, a 1.7-fold increase. Losses increased, however, reflecting increased
initial outlays on opening three new schools in spring 2015. Amid strong demand
for elementary student childcare and after-school activities, student
admissions at two of the new schools have increased significantly, and numbers
at the other school have risen steadily.There were ¥144mn in sales from the Japanese language school of
Waseda EDU, which became a consolidated subsidiary in Q2. The number of
students remained high, at 393, as of the end of May. Although the school
posted some operating profits, it is unlikely to contribute to the company’s
operating income after ¥22mn in goodwill amortization. To accommodate solid
demand, in July the company raised student capacity by 100, to 520. Admissions
to the Japanese language school are in April, July, October and January. As of
July, the number of students increased to around 440 with new admissions. By
October, we expect the school to be at full student capacity.Maintaining a high equity ratio despite M&As lowering
current ratio (3) Financial status and
management indicators In
the Company’s financial status as of the end of May 2015, total assets were
¥17,095mn, up ¥526mn from the end of FY8/14. The main factors were a ¥1,266mn
decrease in cash and deposits, mainly from acquisitions of MAXIS and Waseda EDU
shares, and a ¥1,889mn rise in goodwill. Total
liabilities stood at ¥3,338mn, down ¥39mn from the end of FY8/14, reflecting
lower income taxes payable despite an increase of advances received as a result
of the consolidations of two subsidiaries. Net assets increased ¥565mn YOY to
¥13,756mn, reflecting a rise in retained earnings. Although the current ratio was down following a decrease in cash
and deposits, the equity ratio remained above 80% owing to earnings gains, and
since the company continued to manage virtually without debt, we consider that
it has continued to maintain a good financial status.◆OutlookAnticipating double-digit growth for the full term, the
key driver being the Meiko Gijuku directly operated business (1) Financial outlook for
FY8/15 Meiko
Network Japan has left its outlook for consolidated financial results for
FY8/15 unchanged, planning net sales of ¥19,420mn, up 24.8% YOY, operating
income of ¥3,500mn, up 2.5% YOY, ordinary income of ¥3,620mn, up 2.5% YOY, and
net income of ¥2,260mn, up 2.7% YOY. Through
Q3 FY 8/15, the company attained 67.5% of its full-year net sales forecast and
61.0% of its operating income forecast. Compared with the average Q3
achievement levels of the last three years (70.4% of net sales and 60.6% of
operating income), sales lagged forecasts slightly, as the Meiko Gijuku
franchise business was slightly weaker than anticipated. Earnings grew in line
with previous averages, however, and we think that the company can reach its
targets if there are no major changes in the market climate. In
sales forecasts for each business, the Meiko Gijuku directly operated business
should boost its revenues 48.7%, owing partly to the contribution of MAXIS, but
franchised school sales should rise only 0.3%. As well as expanding market
share through such efforts as opening satellite schools in areas with solid
demand, the company plans to boost the profitability of franchised schools. The
company plans a 1.2% YOY increase for the preparatory school business. We think
that it will slightly exceed its targets, however, as the number of admissions
for spring 2015 was more than expected, as mentioned earlier. With regard to other businesses, the company’s policy is still
to increase school numbers at Meiko Soccer School, Waseda Academy Kobetsu
Schools, and Meiko Kids Schools, and management is forecasting an increase in
sales due to an increase in student numbers. The company anticipates more sales
gains for Waseda EDU owing to higher student numbers. That said, the company
expects Meiko Kids Schools to incur a slightly higher operating loss because of
greater upfront investments.Targeting record operating income for the first time in
three years in FY8/16, the final year of three-year medium-term business plan (2) Three-year medium-term
business plan For FY8/16, when its three-year medium-term business plan ends,
the company targets net sales of ¥20,960mn and ¥4,120mn in operating income.
Management seeks to post record operating income in this term for the first
time in three years.Looking at the sales plan by
business, the company looks for expansion in the Meiko Gijuku directly operated
and franchised school businesses, with the preparatory school business and
other businesses also delivering gains. Management aims to retain the Meiko
Gijuku business as central to earnings while pushing ahead strategically to
expand school and student numbers in other educational service businesses,
thereby bolstering revenue and earnings underpinnings. The Meiko Gijuku franchise
business, which accounts around 70% of operating income, is the key to
achieving the three-year medium-term business plan. The key factor in a 10%
sales rise for the franchise business in FY8/11 was that both the number of
schools and students advanced 5% YOY, while sales per student also increased.
The situation is admittedly harder, as competition has intensified among
private tutorial schools because the pie has shrunk as the number of children
has declined. That said, the company plans to achieve its three-year plan by
continuing to focus on measures to regenerate growth. Specifically, we expect the number of students and new school
openings to increase more efficiently owing to the integration of the Meiko
Gijuku Directly Operated Business Division and Meiko Gijuku Franchised Business
Division and the reorganization of businesses by area. In addition, the company
will bolster the support center established to enhance customer satisfaction
and thereby endeavor to retain students. Also, the company has started boosting
instructor training (stratified training) at directly managed and franchised
schools alike through systematized initiatives to enhance operational
capabilities. Augmenting these initiatives, the company plans to expand student
numbers by highlighting “Meiko-style! Self-supported learning”* to
differentiate itself competitively.Developing private tutorial school business in Taiwan as
the third country outside Japan that the company has entered (3) Cultivating private
tutorial schools in Taiwan One
of the company’s growth strategies is to expand the scope of its educational
services. As a part of its efforts, it announced in June that it would develop
a private tutorial school business in Taiwan. The
stated goal is to establish a joint venture by the end of October 2015 with
local educational firms Han Lin Publishing Co., Ltd., and Baida Culture and
Education Company Limited to develop this business. The approach will be to
conclude a master franchise agreement with the joint venture. The company would
have a 25% stake in that entity, receiving fees for franchise rights. A
specific schedule to roll out operations will be determined in future
discussions. Han Lin Publishing is a diversified firm, engaging in group
tutorial schools and publishing textbooks and other educational materials.
Baida Culture and Education strategically oversees three tutorial school
businesses in Taiwan. Baida Culture and Education currently operates 17 such
schools. With demand for private tutorial schools expected to grow in Taiwan,
the company aims to take advantage of market growth, thereby supplying its
expertise to the joint venture.Taiwan is the third country outside Japan that the company has
entered. In South Korea, it launched a private tutorial school business through
NEXCUBE Corporation (an equity method affiliate in which it has a 24.4% stake),
formed in 2011 through a capital partnership. In 2014, the company opened a
kindergarten for Japanese children in Singapore. While the impacts of these
operations on the company are still minor, it is worth keeping tabs on overseas
businesses, which could become important in the years ahead.◆Shareholder Return Policy
and Social Contribution Initiatives For FY8/15, set to continue record of consecutive
dividend increases since listing, generating a gross investment yield per share
in the 4% level For
FY8/15, management intends to raise dividends by ¥2 per share, to ¥34.00 (for a
dividend payout ratio of 41.5%), retaining its record of continued dividend
growth since listing. The company ultimately targets a ratio of 50%. The
Company maintains a shareholder special benefit plan of giving shareholders as
of August 31 a QUO card worth ¥3,000 per share unit (100 shares). On the basis
of the closing share price of ¥1,400 on July 17, 2015, the gross investment
yield per share unit is in the 4% level, which far exceeds the average gross
investment yield for listed companies of about 1.5%. Also,
with regard to ROE (Return On Equity), which is gaining importance as an
investment indicator, the company’s actual figure was 17.6% for the previous
fiscal year, which far exceeds the average 8.5% for the companies listed on the
first section of the Tokyo Stock Exchange, and thus will gain continued
attention as an attractive company to invest in. The company constantly engages in social contribution
initiatives. The latest example is Meiko Kyoiku Kenkyujo, a foundation that
Hirotake Watanabe, president, and Yoshiko Okui, vice president, established in
May 2014. That entity gained authorization in April this year as a public
foundation. The foundation accepted its first applications for a scholarship
program in December 2014, deciding to offer scholarships without repayment
obligations to 45 underprivileged students. Also, the company made donations to
a school feeding initiative of the United Nations World Food Programme in
February this year and for earthquake relief efforts in Nepal in April. 報告內容僅供參考，不得作為任何投資引用之唯一依據，且其投資風險及決定應由投資人自行判斷並自負損益。