eGuarantee(JP-8771)TokyoStockExchangeFirstSectionSustainedearningsgrowthatopsteadyincreasesinthebalanceofcreditguaranteesoutstanding
  2015-05-12 提供機構：FISCO 作者：FISCO 點閱次數：13   

eGuarantee, Inc.’s (8771) core business is to provide credit risk guarantee
services targeting sales credits issued by companies to their customers. The
Company hedges the credit risk it assumes by transferring the guarantees to
financial institutions via reassurance contracts. It follows a recurring
revenue business model in which net sales equates to the product of the balance
of outstanding guarantee times the guarantee fee ratio. As the number of client
companies has increased, the Company’s
balance of credit guarantees outstanding has risen. As a result, eGuarantee has
delivered sustained growth. Looking at the Company’s financial results, net sales and earnings have both remained
on a growth trajectory owing to steady increases in the balance of credit
guarantees outstanding. As of December 31, 2014, the balance of credit
guarantees outstanding stood at \227,734mn, an increase of 16.8% year on year
(yoy), reaching an all-time high. As of March 31, 2015, the balance of credit
guarantees outstanding appears to have surpassed more than \230,000mn. The
balance has increased because the Company’s credit guarantee services are becoming better known and its
sales channels are expanding via alliances with regional financial
institutions. In the fiscal year ended March 31, 2015 (FY3/15), net sales were
slightly sluggish due to a decline in the average guarantee fee ratio as a
result of fewer corporate bankruptcies. However, the Company is expected to
achieve its operating profit forecast for the full fiscal year (\1,530mn, up
17.7% yoy) based on an increase in profitability mainly underpinned by lower
securitization costs. In FY3/16, the Company is
expected to deliver annual profit growth of around 20%, mainly based on an
anticipated increase in the balance of credit guarantees outstanding.
eGuarantee is implementing growth strategies to drive further business
expansion. These strategies include upgrading and expanding the Company’s line of credit guarantee products, along with developing new
customers by strengthening alliances with regional financial institutions.
Besides launching a small-ticket credit guarantee service via its subsidiary in
2014, eGuarantee is strengthening sales of its export credit guarantee service
in China, South Korea and elsewhere in Asia. Although each of these services
still represents only a several percent of the overall balance of credit
guarantees outstanding, the small-ticket credit guarantee service has a high
degree of profitability and the export guarantee service has significant growth
potential. Accordingly, these two services serve as the core drivers of the
Company’s financial results over the medium and
long terms. Looking at the Shareholder Return Policy, eGuarantee’s basic policy is to pay dividends in line with earnings while
retaining the internal reserves needed to aggressively expand business and
ensure a strong financial position. In FY3/15, eGuarantee plans to issue an
annual dividend of \28.00 per share, representing a dividend payout ratio of
32%. If earnings growth continues in FY3/16, the Company is likely to continue
increasing its dividend. As for the company’s shareholder gift program, eGuarantee awards a QUO card worth ¥1,500 to each shareholder at the end of March every year.◆Company Profile Expanding business by partnering with overseas financial
institutions and setting up subsidiaries (1) Company History eGuarantee can trace its
origins to its establishment as a subsidiary of ITOCHU Corp. (8001) by Mr.
Masanori Eto, the current president and CEO of eGuarantee, during his third
year as an ITOCHU employee. Initially, eGuarantee set out to provide a service
to hedge the risk of uncollectible sales credits, such as trade notes and
accounts receivable, for B2B transactions over the Internet. However, demand
for these services was lower than initially anticipated. Therefore, eGuarantee
evolved into a provider of credit risk guarantee services for sales credits in
real B2B business transactions that do not involve the Internet. In 2008, eGuarantee arranged its first fund to invest in
corporate credit and invested in the fund itself. Until this fund was arranged,
eGuarantee had packaged its guarantees according to the degree of risk and sold
these packages to financial institutions for hedging the risks. Arranging a new
fund to invest in corporate credit has enabled the Company to diversify its
opportunities for profit and increase the amount of credit it underwrites,
adding further impetus to growth.In January 2012, eGuarantee
acquired the factoring business of Coface Japan Finance Co., Ltd., the Japanese
arm of Coface Group, which is a leading French credit guarantee group. The
purpose of the acquisition was to upgrade and expand the Company’s business foundations and bolster its product development
capabilities by obtaining expertise related to export credit guarantees. By
leveraging the expertise obtained through this acquisition, eGuarantee entered
into business alliances with local financial institutions in South Korea in
December 2013 and China in June 2014, and has commenced business in those
countries. In step with expansion in its business volume, in 2013
eGuarantee established eGuarantee Solution, Inc. as a wholly owned subsidiary
to specialize mainly in contract-related administrative work and data registration
services. In 2014, eGuarantee set up wholly owned subsidiary RJG Guarantee Co.,
Ltd. as a specialized provider of small-ticket credit guarantee services.Generating profits by diversifying and upgrading methods
of transferring credit risk (2) Description of Businesses eGuarantee’s main business is insuring
against the sales credit risk arising through transactions among companies.
This business is illustrated graphically below.First, eGuarantee and its
client company sign a contract by which eGuarantee promises to pay to the
client a fixed amount to compensate for a sales credit if it should become
irrecoverable. By paying a guarantee fee to eGuarantee, the client company
minimizes its risk of loss from an irrecoverable sales credit. In other words,
the client company is able to pay a certain guarantee fee in exchange for
minimizing its risk of loss from an irrecoverable sales credit. Most contracts
are effective for one year, and the client company pays the entire guarantee
fee upfront, in principle. eGuarantee divides the sales proceeds into 12 equal
monthly installments and records the sales every month, so month-to-month sales
fluctuations are relatively small. As eGuarantee’s net sales are the product of
its balance of guarantees outstanding times its guarantee fee ratio, the
Company follows a recurring revenue business model. Therefore, the key to
driving growth in net sales lies in increasing the balance of credit guarantees
outstanding.The guarantee fee ratio
differs depending on each individual contract. This is because the risk of
recoverability and the amount of the guarantee are different for each case. In
practice, the guarantee fee ratio is set based on the result of eGuarantee’s investigations and analyses of the credit that will be
guaranteed by the contract and investigations of risk associated with the
companies subject to the guarantee. Furthermore, eGuarantee refers to various
data, including economic indicators published daily, trends in the number of
corporate bankruptcies and the probability of credit default based on past
experience, and revises guarantee fees every month based on this data. When the
number of corporate bankruptcies is decreasing, the credit risk is lower. This
means that the guarantee fee ratio will also be set lower. However, eGuarantee
is not bound by industry practice in setting its guarantee fee, but must set a
fee that justifies the cost of hedging the risk for the client, if it wants to
successfully conclude a contract. For this reason, eGuarantee sets the
guarantee fee in line with the needs of the user. In regard to the credit risk
assumed by the Company, eGuarantee packages its guarantees into a portfolio of
financial risk products according to risk. It then transfers the guarantees to
financial institutions, investment funds and other entities (securitization),
according to their needs. Upon the transfer of credit risk, eGuarantee pays
guarantee fees and commissions to the entities that accept its guarantee
packages. These guarantee fees and commissions constitute the bulk of
eGuarantee’s cost of sales. Therefore, eGuarantee’s
gross margin depends mainly on the spread between the guarantee fee ratio
agreed upon by the Company and its clients and the reassurance fee ratio that
applies to fees and commissions paid by the Company to the entities that accept
the transfer of credit risk. eGuarantee has been reducing the cost-of-sales
ratio by diversifying and upgrading its methods of transferring credit risk. In
addition, by arranging investment funds at a subsidiary, eGuarantee has reaped
benefits such as reducing the amount of guarantee fees paid to third parties,
as well as increasing the amount of guarantees undertaken. These benefits have
been a key factor behind the increase in eGuarantee’s operating margin in recent years.Winning new customers across a broad range of businesses
centered on the comprehensive guarantee service for non-financial companies (3) Net Sales by Product eGuarantee provides disclosure
of its businesses in four product categories based on the contract counterparty
and the type of contract. The product category that generates the largest net
sales is comprehensive guarantees for non-financial companies (billing by
guarantee limit). This product category accounts for 70% of overall net sales. The comprehensive guarantee service provides a guarantee
contract that comprehensively assumes the credit risk of 10 or more companies
that are transaction counterparties of the client company. The transaction
counterparties whose credit risk is covered may be grouped in a number of ways,
including by net sales ranking or transaction terms. This guarantee service
achieves risk dispersion by comprehensively transferring the credit risk of
multiple transaction counterparties. For this reason, the client company is
able to benefit from a lower guarantee fee than if it entered into separate
guarantee contracts for each transaction counterparty. Another benefit is that
comprehensive guarantees allow the client company to mitigate its cost of
managing the credit of its transaction counterparties.Looking at the different types
of billing methods for comprehensive guarantees, the billing-by-sales method
involves charging the client company a fee that is calculated by applying a
guarantee fee ratio set for each transaction counterparty to the client company’s actual monthly net sales to each transaction counterparty.
This billing method is optimal for providing guarantees to client companies
that experience well-defined busy and quiet seasons in their businesses. On the
other hand, the billing-by-guarantee-limit method involves charging the client
company a guarantee fee based on a guarantee limit set in advance, regardless
of the actual amount of transactions between the client company and its
transaction counterparties. The comprehensive guarantee service based on the
latter billing method has become eGuarantee’s mainstay product category. Company-specific guarantee contracts are contracts in which
eGuarantee assumes the credit risk of a transaction counterparty chosen by the
client company on a single-company basis. The only billing method available is
the billing-by-guarantee-limit method. For financial companies, eGuarantee
provides a service that assumes the credit risk of various types of receivables
held by financial institutions and other entities.As of March 2015, eGuarantee
had approximately 1,500 client companies, ranging from small and medium-sized
enterprises to major corporations. Furthermore, the Company guarantees the
credit of approximately 40,000 companies. eGuarantee’s customers are spread out evenly across a multitude of
industries, including the wholesaling, retailing, and manufacturing sectors.
Accordingly, eGuarantee’s business performance is not
susceptible to business volatility in any particular sector. Nationwide expansion achieved by setting up branches in
core cities and forming alliances with 51 regional banks (4) Operational Structure In addition to its head office in Tokyo, eGuarantee has opened
branches in Osaka, Fukuoka, Aichi, and Hokkaido in the course of expanding its
network across Japan. The Company plans to maintain its current operational
structure in terms of its business locations. Meanwhile, eGuarantee has
efficiently developed customers by forming business alliances with financial
companies, trading companies, leasing firms and other partners. Notably,
eGuarantee has strengthened its business alliances with regional banks, which
have many local small and medium-sized enterprises among their customers. As of
March 31, 2015, eGuarantee had entered into business alliances with 51 regional
banks, establishing an alliance network spanning nearly all of Japan. Looking
at the breakdown of the number of customer referrals, referrals from regional
banks account for around half of the total, followed by referrals via trading
companies and those from other channels.Reaping first-mover profits on the back of domestic
economic recovery and market growth potential (5) Market Size and
Competition The size of the market for sales credits (trade notes and
accounts receivable) targeted by the eGuarantee’s mainstay service is estimated to be more than \200tn.
Certainly, not all of these sales credits will require credit risk guarantee
services. However, the size of the sales credit market shows that sales credit
guarantee services harbor considerable growth potential.Furthermore, there are almost
no other companies in Japan like eGuarantee that specialize in providing sales
credit guarantees for non-financial companies and that could compete with the
Company. Competition has been limited to certain subsidiaries of major trading
companies that have provided these services in the past. In the field of
small-ticket sales credit guarantee services, eGuarantee faces some competition
from Trust&Growth Co., Ltd., which is a subsidiary of Raccoon Co., Ltd.
(3031). Looking ahead, the market for credit risk guarantee services for sales
credits is projected to continue expanding. Based on this outlook, new entrants
are forecast to increase in number. However, it should take some time before
these companies are able to catch up with eGuarantee because they must first
build up management expertise in fields such as credit risk management and
portfolio structuring. In the near term, it is highly likely that eGuarantee
will be able to reap first-mover profits as the market continues to grow. In addition, the number of corporate bankruptcies, which has an
impact on the guarantee fee ratio, has continued to decline since peaking out
in 2009. In 2014, the number of corporate bankruptcies decreased 11.1% yoy to
9,180, falling below the 10,000 mark for the first time in eight years. The
ongoing recovery of the Japanese economy, albeit at a gradual pace, forms the
backdrop to the declining number of corporate bankruptcies. The fewer number of
corporate bankruptcies has been accompanied by a decline in the guarantee fee
ratio. Currently, the guarantee fee ratio stands at about 2% (compared with
about 3% around 2009). A decline in the guarantee fee ratio is a negative
factor that pushes down net sales. Meanwhile, considering that a lower
guarantee fee ratio reduces the fees paid to acceptors of securitized
guarantees, a decrease in the guarantee fee ratio is a neutral factor that has
no impact on the gross margin. Moreover, during an economic recovery, companies
tend to see an increase in the number of their new transaction counterparties
in step with sales growth, and tend to generate surplus cash that can be used
to hedge the credit risk of sales credits. For these reasons, the balance of
credit guarantees outstanding tends to increase in times of economic recovery.◆Financial results Record-high financial results delivered for Q1-Q3 FY3/15
owing to cost cutting and increases in the number of contracts (1) Financial results for
Q1-Q3 FY3/15 On January 30, 2015, eGuarantee announced its financial results
for the first three quarters of FY3/15 (Q1-Q3 FY3/15). eGuarantee continued to
deliver record-high financial results for the nine-month period. Net sales were
\3,003mn, up 7.4% yoy and operating profit was ¥1,159mn, up 18.3% yoy.Net sales were slightly lower
than forecast, mainly reflecting a decline in the guarantee fee ratio due to a
fewer number of corporate bankruptcies in step with Japan’s economic recovery. However, the balance of credit guarantees
outstanding stood at \227,734mn as of December 31, 2014, an increase of 16.8%
from December 31, 2013, largely in line with the Company’s forecast. The main factor was steady growth in the number of
contracts, primarily driven by an increase in the number of financial
institution partners, stronger small-ticket credit guarantee services, and
enhanced sales productivity. With regard to the enhanced sales productivity, in
April 2014, eGuarantee started fully operating a sales support system that
increases the transparency of the sales flow. This led to an improvement in the
contract completion ratio. Moreover, the cost-of-sales ratio decreased dramatically. This
reflected several factors, including a decrease in fees paid to acceptors of
securitized guarantees in line with a fewer number of corporate bankruptcies.
Another factor was that the Company was able to structure funds at a lower
cost, against the backdrop of a lower expected rate of return from investors
primarily due to the Bank of Japan’s
qualitative and quantitative monetary easing (QQE). The much lower
cost-of-sales ratio was a positive factor that pushed up profit margins.
Looking at the quarterly operating margin trend, the operating margin increased
to 40.9% in the third quarter (Q3) of FY3/15 (October to December 2014),
surpassing the 40% mark for the first time.Achieved almost all forecasts, for both the balance of
credit guarantees outstanding and profits (2) Forecasts for FY3/15 For FY3/15, the Company is
forecasting net sales of \4,200mn, up 12.4% yoy, and operating profit of
\1,530mn, up 17.7% yoy. Recurring profit is projected at \1,550mn, up 17.5%
yoy. The Company is forecasting net income of \900mn, up 27.5% yoy. The achievement rates for the
Company’s financial results for Q1-Q3 FY3/15
against its full-year forecasts were 71.5% for net sales and 75.8% for
operating profit. Accordingly, although net sales fell slightly behind schedule
relative to the full-year net sales forecast, operating profit finished the
Q1-Q3 FY3/15 period largely as planned. Moreover, the balance of credit
guarantees outstanding is projected to surpass \230,000mn as of March 31.
Therefore, the Company appears to have achieved its initial forecast. Strong financial position owing to high profitability and
a well-balanced capital structure (3) Financial condition and
indicators As of December 31, 2014, total
assets were \9,055mn, up \572mn from the previous fiscal year-end. The main
factors were an increase of \395mn in cash and deposits tracking higher profits
and an increase of \173mn in prepaid expenses to acceptors of securitized
guarantees in line with an increase in the balance of credit guarantees
outstanding. Total liabilities were \3,173mn, a decrease of \58mn from the
previous fiscal year-end. Here, interest-bearing debt decreased \37mn over the
same time period. In addition, net assets were \5,881mn, an increase of \630mn
from the previous fiscal year-end. The main factors were increases of \468mn in
retained earnings and \131mn in equity attributable to noncontrolling
interests. The higher equity attributable to noncontrolling interests reflected
the decision to establish a silent partnership (Credit Guarantee 1 Silent
Partnership) at the end of September 2014 in order to invest in a new fund, and
the conversion of this partnership into a subsidiary. (investment in silent
partnership: \300mn, eGuarantee’s investment ratio: 51%,
investment period: 5 years).Looking at financial indicators, eGuarantee has maintained an
extremely strong financial position. The Company is virtually debt free with
interest-bearing debt of only \144mn. In terms of indicators of financial
stability, eGuarantee’s current ratio stood at more
than 200% and its equity ratio was more than 50%. Furthermore, in terms of
profitability, ROA and ROE have both been steadily maintained above 10%.
Additionally, the operating margin has been increasing continuously. All in
all, eGuarantee is to be commended as a highly profitable enterprise.◆Growth strategy Targeting growth in the number of contracts by
establishing a follow-up support structure for financial institution partners eGuarantee’s strategy is to develop its businesses with a view to achieving
the following medium-term growth trajectories: increase net sales and the
balance of credit guarantees outstanding by 10-20% per year, and increase
profits by 20-30% per year. The Company is pursuing growth strategies such as
improving the service utilization rate at the financial institutions that are
its sales partners, along with strengthening small-ticket sales credit
guarantee services in Japan and the export credit guarantee service for exports
to Asia. (1) Improving the service
utilization rate at financial institution partners eGuarantee has delivered growth by efficiently developing
customers through the formation of business alliances primarily with regional
banks, shinkin banks, and other partners who have many customers among local
small and medium-sized enterprises. As of March 31, eGuarantee had a network
spanning almost all of Japan with 51 financial institution partners.
Accordingly, the Company plans to enhance measures designed to improve the
service utilization rate at its financial institution partners going forward.Currently, eGuarantee is able to constantly conclude new
contracts on a monthly basis at only around 30-40% of all of its financial
institution partners. The challenge for eGuarantee is that the service
utilization rate at the remaining 60-70% of its partners is low. eGuarantee
believes that the main reason for this low service utilization rate is that
certain financial institution partners have not provided sales representatives
with the incentive to sell eGuarantee’s
services. Going forward, eGuarantee will encourage these financial institutions
to introduce such incentives. The most effective incentive is to incorporate
the number of contracts sold into the performance reviews of the sales
representatives. In fact, sales of guarantee contracts are far higher at
financial institutions that have actually introduced these incentives.
Furthermore, eGuarantee will establish a finely-tuned follow-up structure by
taking steps such as assigning one dedicated staff member to each regional
bank. In doing so, the Company’s strategy is to increase the
number of contracts by steadily improving the service utilization rate.Develop services for the Asian market, while
incorporating small-ticket credit guarantees (2) Strengthening small-ticket
credit guarantees and the export credit guarantee service As part of efforts to upgrade
and expand its line of guarantee products, eGuarantee set up subsidiary RJG
Guarantee Co., Ltd. in March 2014. This subsidiary specializes in small-ticket
sales credit guarantee services for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises.
Customers for these services are being developed through agency channels, in
addition to the Internet via acceptance of online service applications. eGuarantee has not set clear
standards regarding the definition of small-ticket sales credit. Looking at the
average guarantee amount per client company for the credit guarantee service,
the average amount for eGuarantee as a whole is between \600mn and \700mn. In
contrast, RJR Guarantee assumes guarantee amounts that can be as small as
between \100mn and \200mn. As of March 31, 2015, the balance of credit
guarantees outstanding for RJG Guarantee was \1,000mn, and the number of its
client companies was less than 100. RJG Guarantee’s performance appears to have largely tracked the Company’s forecasts. Because of the high degree of risk, RJG Guarantee
has an average guarantee fee ratio of around 6-10%, which is higher than the
Company-wide average of 2%. RJG Guarantee also appears to have higher profit
margins. Meanwhile, in terms of the
export credit guarantee service for exports to Asia, eGuarantee formed
alliances with leading local financial institutions in South Korea, such as an
alliance with a major non-life insurance company, in December 2013 and began providing
these services in earnest. Additionally, in June 2014, eGuarantee entered into
a business alliance with the Japanese branch of China-based Bank of
Communications and launched export credit guarantee services for exports to the
Chinese market. Nippon Export and Investment
Insurance (NEXI) provides export credit guarantee services, but it primarily
focuses on services with large guarantee amounts. Trading companies often carry
out export transactions, including credit guarantees, for small and medium-sized
enterprises. However, the guarantee fee ratio is high for these services, at
10-20%. Therefore, we believe that eGuarantee has considerable scope to enter
this market. eGuarantee has set a guarantee fee ratio of around 5% for the
export credit guarantee service, which is higher than its ordinary guarantee
fee ratio. The balance of guarantees outstanding for the export credit
guarantee service appears to have increased to around \10,000mn as of March 31,
2015. The profit margin is lower than eGuarantee’s ordinary guarantee service for Japanese companies.eGuarantee is conducting
negotiations aimed at increasing the number of financial institution partners,
with a view to bolstering its ability to assume the risk of export credit going
forward. At the same time, the Company is developing business in Southeast
Asian regions where the amount of exports from Japan is increasing, such as
Thailand, Malaysia and Singapore. eGuarantee positions the next one or two years as a period for
solidifying its business foundations for services targeting the Asian market.
However, the yen’s depreciation in recent years
has shaped a favorable environment that offers prospects for export growth for
not only major corporations but also small and medium-sized enterprises. Future
developments will be watched closely as this business has the potential to
become a core growth driver for eGuarantee over the medium and long terms.Increase sales division personnel and continuously seek
out M&A candidates (3) Personnel strategy and
M&As eGuarantee plans to increase
its personnel by 10-20 employees every year. (There were 110 employees as of
March 31, 2014.) Personnel expenses are projected to continue increasing by
just over \100-150mn a year, but the Company should be able to absorb these
cost increases through higher net sales. Looking at eGuarantee’s personnel mix, the ratio of sales division personnel to
administrative division personnel currently stands at 6:5. Going forward,
eGuarantee plans to focus on increasing its sales division personnel. In addition, in regard to M&A strategy, eGuarantee plans to
continue seeking out M&A candidates worldwide, targeting businesses related
to credit guarantee services and peripheral businesses.◆Shareholder Return Policy and Risks to Business Strong prospects for maintaining the dividend payout ratio at
the 30% level and increasing dividends in line with improved earnings (1)
Shareholder Return Policy In
terms of its dividend policy, eGuarantee’s basic policy is to pay dividends in line with earnings while
retaining the internal reserves needed to aggressively expand business and
ensure a strong financial position. Looking at the historical dividend trend,
eGuarantee has consistently increased dividends since paying out dividends from
FY3/09 to FY3/14. In FY3/15, eGuarantee plans to continue increasing dividends.
The Company is projecting an annual dividend per share of \28.00 per share for
FY3/15, up \6 per share from the previous fiscal year. eGuarantee appears to be
targeting a dividend payout ratio of around 30%. In FY3/16 and beyond, barring
any major funding requirements, we believe that eGuarantee is highly likely to
continue increasing its dividends in line with earnings growth. In
addition, the Company has introduced a shareholder gift program. Specifically,
eGuarantee uniformly awards a QUO card worth ¥1,500 to each shareholder who holds 100 or more shares at the
end of March every year. Based on the share price (\1,919) as of April 3, 2015,
the total return on investment for each shareholder holding one unit of shares
was 2.2%.Negligible impacts from sharp economic downturns, new
corporate entrants and enactment of new statutory regulations (2) Risks to Business Finally, we examine the risks
that should be taken into consideration when looking at eGuarantee’s business performance. The following are the primary risks that
could affect the Company’s business results. However,
we believe that these risks do not present any major concerns at this time. ・ In the event of a
sharp downturn in the Japanese economy, the number of corporate bankruptcies
could increase. This could lead to a larger-than-anticipated increase in the
execution of guarantees by eGuarantee and increase the cost of transferring
risk to acceptors of securitized guarantees. This, in turn, could reduce
profitability. ・ During periods of weak
economic growth in Japan, eGuarantee may raise the guarantee fee ratio it
charges. This could reduce the number of new contracts, the Company’s contract renewal rate, and its balance of guarantees
outstanding. ・ Competition could
intensify as a result of new corporate entrants into the credit guarantee
business. This could lower eGuarantee’s market share. ・ Currently, credit risk guarantee services are not subject to
statutory regulations such as the Insurance Business Act and the Financial
Instruments and Exchange Act. In the event of the enforcement of new statutory
regulations, the Company may have to change its business model. 報告內容僅供參考，不得作為任何投資引用之唯一依據，且其投資風險及決定應由投資人自行判斷並自負損益。