Nagaileben(JP-7447)TokyoStockExchangeFirstSectionAslightdeclineinprofitsyearonyear,butnotaseriouscauseforconcern
  2015-08-19 提供機構：FISCO 作者：FISCO 點閱次數：5   

Nagaileben
Co., Ltd. <7447> (hereafter, “Nagaileben” or “the Company”) is the
leading manufacturer of medical gowns in Japan, with a domestic market share of
over 60%. In the consolidated business results for Q3 FY8/15 (September 2014 –
May 2015) announced by the Company, sales amounted to ¥12,524mn, a 4.3%
decrease year on year (“y-o-y”); operating profit amounted to ¥3,837mn, a 7.3%
decrease y-o-y; recurring profit amounted to ¥4,104mn, a 3.2% decrease y-o-y;
and net profit amounted to ¥2,580mn, a 4.2% decrease y-o-y. While there have
been no significant changes, such as to the industry environment and market
structure, on the one hand some large contracts were pushed forward to Q2, but
on the other had some were also postponed to Q4. As a result there was a very
slight decline in profits y-o-y, but not to an extent that would be a serious
cause for concern. In
its full-year business results for FY8/15, the current fiscal year, the Company
expects to achieve ¥16,700mn in sales, a 3% increase y-o-y; ¥4,931mn in
operating profit, a 0.2% increase y-o-y; ¥5,088mn in recurring profit, a 1.1%
decrease y-o-y; and ¥3,187mn in net profit, a 1.1% decrease y-o-y. There has
been no change to the revised forecasts that were announced with the interim
results. However, both recurring profit and net profit may increase due to the
effects of the exchange rate at the end of the current fiscal period. The
Company announced a new Mid-Term Management Plan, (numerical targets: sales of
¥17,500mn and operating profit of ¥5,300mn by FY8/17), and these targets have
not changed. The Company plans to achieve these goals by expanding overseas
production and strengthening its high-margin advanced-function product range. Furthermore, the Company is taking a positive stance on
shareholder returns, having already conducted a share buy-back of approximately
1.0mn shares (¥1,500mn) in FY8/15 through a takeover bid (TOB). In addition, it
announced it will pay a ¥50 dividend to commemorate its 100th anniversary. So
when combining this commemorative dividend with the normal annual dividend of
¥50, the full year dividend is forecast to be ¥100. This would likely give a
dividend payout ratio of 107.9% (nonconsolidated basis) and a total return
ratio of 156.5% (nonconsolidated basis) against the expected net profit, and
the Company can be highly evaluated for its shareholder returns based on these
percentages.◆Company Profile Leading manufacturer of
medical gowns with a domestic market share of over 60% (1) Description of businesses Nagaileben is a specialist manufacturer of medical gowns for
nurses, doctors, patients and others. Established in 1915 as Nagai Shoten, the
Company has a rich history. Since then, it has expanded its operations
nationally to become a leading domestic manufacturer with a share of over 60%
of the market for medical gowns for nurses.●Sales composition All of the Company’s products are medical gowns and related
products. The sales contribution by item (FY8/14) is healthcare wear 58.2%,
doctor’s wear 16.5%, surgical wear 9.4%, patient wear 8.3%, utility wear 4.6%,
shoes 1.5% and other products 1.5%. Healthcare wear consists of products mainly
for nurses, and utility wear consists of aprons, cardigans, and other items
worn as outer garments. Profit margins for each item do not vary significantly;
however, the profit margins of purchased products, such as shoes, are
relatively lower.In terms of sales contribution by region (FY8/14), eastern Japan
accounts for 52.2%, western Japan 36.0%, central Japan 10.8%, and overseas
1.0%. While coverage is nationwide, sales in central Japan and abroad remain
low, indicating potential for future expansion.In terms of sales contribution by product (function) (FY8/14),
advanced-function products made up 48.1%, standard-function products 39.9%,
mass-produced products 6.3%, and DC brand products 5.8%. As an example, in
nursing wear products, when classified by price range, mass-produced products
are under ¥5,000, standard-function products are ¥5,000-7,500,
advanced-function products are ¥7,500-10,000, and DC brand products are over ¥10,000;
the higher the price, the greater the profit margin.●Sales channels and production status The
Company’s end users include nurses and doctors, with the purchasers of the
products being mainly medical facilities such as hospitals, nursing care
facilities, and other such facilities. However, the Company does not conduct
direct sales, with 100% being agency sales via medical equipment wholesalers
that trade with these medical and other facilities. As a result, direct sales
expenses are contained; however, as sales staff is constantly in contact with
large hospitals and other facilities, the Company understands customers’ needs.
In
most cases, medical gowns are laundered within the hospitals by the hospitals
themselves, but in recent years they have been switching to leasing. The lease
term is typically four years. Because this generates lease switching demand
every four years, it seems to provide stable support for the Company’s
earnings. Looking at the Company’s production structure, based on FY8/14
performance, domestic production constitutes 54.3%, overseas production 43.1%,
and purchased products 2.6%. Overseas production is predominantly in Indonesia,
but the Company owns no factories and the goods are produced at factories of
local partners, which mitigates investment risk and reduces costs.Construction of an integrated system, from design to
procurement, manufacturing, and sales(2) Distinctive
characteristics and strength The
Company is a specialized manufacturer of medical gowns, and one of its
strengths is that it has in place an integrated system to undertake everything,
from design to raw material procurement, manufacturing and sales. In its
product planning, it can accurately understand customer needs and reflect them
in its products. Specifically, the Company works with major synthetic fiber
manufacturers, such as Toray <3402> to develop functional textiles,
including antibacterial, anti-static, industrial washable specification
(reduced cost) textiles. It also supplies products of excellent design, which
have earned a good reputation from its users. At the same time, it also
incorporates overseas production, enabling it to sell its products at an
appropriate margin. Furthermore, in addition to its large number of affiliated
factories, the Company has the necessary financial resources to be able to constantly
maintain product item inventories that extend into the thousands of varieties,
while also being able to swiftly respond to a broad range of user needs,
including for made-to-order products, through a rapid production and sales
system (the Quick Response system) that delivers the desired product on a
specified day. This has also helped it to earn strong trust from its customers.
On the sales side, it has a network of close to 1,000 agents nationwide, and
while its sales capabilities are robust, the Company itself controls its sales
expenses as much as possible.As a result, the Company’s
share of the domestic market for medical gowns for nurses exceeds 60%, and it
maintains a firm position as the leading medical gown manufacturer in Japan.
Additionally, it has maintained profitability with a gross margin of 46.8%
(actual results for FY8/14). The fact that it is both highly profitable and has
a high market share means that most of its customers are satisfied with its
products and services, which is the Company’s greatest strength. By concentrating its business resources in the niche market of
medical gowns, the Company can efficiently manage everything from design to
manufacturing and sales. Moreover, although it is a niche market, room for
further development remains, as it has relatively low market shares for patient
wear, surgical wear and other items. The Company has explicitly stated that the
medical gown business could grow for some time and it will move aggressively to
develop peripheral markets.◆Earnings Trends Even when renewals of lease
contracts are postponed, the total is leveled out across the full fiscal year (1) Summary for Q3 of FY8/15 ●Status of profit and loss In the consolidated results for Q3 FY8/15 (September 2014 – May
2015), the Company achieved sales of ¥12,524mn, a 4.3% decrease y-o-y;
operating profit of ¥3,837mn, a 7.3% decrease y-o-y; recurring profit of
¥4,104mn, a 3.2% decrease y-o-y; and quarterly net profit of ¥2,580mn, a 4.2%
decrease y-o-y. Sales and operating profit were slightly below their targets,
but each was only a small amount below target and neither result is a
particular cause for concern.Sales were down 4.3% y-o-y,
but the effects of the revisions to the medical treatment fees in the spring of
2014 and to the nursing care fees in the spring 2015 have not yet appeared, so
it is difficult to image that the market structure and market environment are
changing greatly, and these factors are unlikely to be behind the decline in
sales. The main factor behind the decline in sales was that some of the
renewals of lease contracts for large hospitals were pushed forward to Q2 while
some have been postponed to Q4. However, these changes are leveled out across
the full fiscal year so are not a cause for concern, and the Company has not
revised its full-year forecasts described below. One more factor behind the
decline is the trend in small contracts for medical facilities and clinics
operated by individuals, which account for 30% of sales. There had been an
increase in sales for these small contracts in the form of last-minute demand
up to March of last year, which was immediately prior to the hike in the
consumption tax rate. But subsequently sales declined and it seems that this
effect is still exerting downward pressure on sales. However, this is also a
factor that should disappear over time and is not a particular cause for
concern for the future. The gross margin fell from
47.0% in the same period in the previous fiscal year to 46.7%. But as the
full-year forecast for the gross margin is 46.0%, this is an acceptable level.
The main factors behind the decline in the gross margin were that while costs
rose due to the weak yen, the intense fluctuations in the yen spot rate (¥101.79
at the end of May 2014, ¥120.68 at the end of May 2015) have comparatively kept
the decline in profitability to a minimum, and also the various other measures
to reduce costs seemed to have absorbed the higher costs due to the weak yen. Selling, general and administrative (SG&A) costs climbed 1.6%
y-o-y to ¥2,015mn. The main factor driving this rise was an increase in
depreciation costs due to the relocation to a new head office. However, the
increase had been factored in initially and the SG&A costs were basically
as forecast.Conversely, recurring profit declined 3.2% y-o-y, and while the
extent of the decline was less than that of operating profit, this was mainly
due to the increase in non-operating profit, particularly foreign exchange
gains. To hedge against the effects of the yen’s depreciation on the cost of
sales, the Company holds deposits in U.S. dollars. The foreign exchange gain
arising from these deposits increased dramatically, from ¥53mn in Q3 FY8/14 to ¥237mn.
Meanwhile, in extraordinary profit/loss, the gain on sale of fixed assets of ¥115mn
recorded in Q3 FY8/14 (in association with the relocation to the new head
office) was not recorded this year. As a result, the rate of decline in net
profit was slightly greater than that of recurring profit.In sales by item, healthcare wear
amounted to ¥7,313mn, a 4.9% decrease y-o-y; doctor’s wear amounted to ¥2,094mn,
a 4.7% decrease y-o-y; utility wear amounted to ¥525mn, a 13.6% decrease y-o-y;
patient wear amounted to ¥1,070mn, a 3.8% increase y-o-y; surgical wear
amounted to ¥1,137mn, a 0.5% increase y-o-y; shoes amounted to ¥167mn, a 12.8%
decrease y-o-y; and other products amounted to ¥214mn, a 6.1% decrease y-o-y. In the mainstay healthcare
wear, results were down y-o-y due to the previously described factors, of the
changes in renewal demand for some products and the delayed recording of sales.
In addition to the same factor of changes in renewal demand, the reason for the
decline in sales for doctor’s wear were the effects of the high growth rate in
the same period in the previous fiscal year, and there are no major changes to
market trends. The trend in utility wear of shifting away from individual
supply toward shared use of items continued, driving a continued decline in
sales. Although the monetary amount is small, patient wear performed strongly
due to growing market demand. Surgical wear sales were also steady, driven by
market penetration of scrub wear and compel packs. Note: “Sales conditions by region” and “Sales
conditions by product” are not disclosed for Q3. ●Financial
position The Company’s financial status has remained stable. Total assets
at the end of Q3 FY8/15 amounted to ¥38,278mn, a decrease of ¥871mn compared to
the previous year-end. Total current assets amounted to ¥28,778mn, a decrease
of ¥811mn, primarily reflecting a decrease of ¥3,130mn in cash and deposits and
an increase of ¥1,911mn in notes and accounts receivable. Fixed assets amounted
to ¥9,500mn, a decrease of ¥60mn.Total liabilities amounted to ¥4,020mn, a decrease of ¥447mn
compared to the previous year. Its primary causes include a decrease of ¥553mn
in corporate tax payable. Net assets amounted to ¥34,258mn, a decrease of ¥423mn
compared to the previous fiscal year-end. This was mainly because an increase
of ¥ 825mn in retained earnings due to the recording of quarterly net profit
was exceeded by a decrease of ¥1,500mn due to acquisition of treasury stock. As
a result of these factors, the shareholders’ equity ratio was 89.5%, increasing
from 88.6% at the previous year-end.If the yen continues to trend
at its current rate, recurring profit is highly likely to increase (2) FY8/15 business results forecastFor the full-year business
results for FY8/15, the Company expects to achieve ¥16,700mn in sales, a 3%
increase y-o-y; ¥4,931mn in operating profit, a 0.2% increase y-o-y; ¥5,088mn
in recurring profit, a 1.1 % decrease y-o-y; and ¥3,187mn in net profit, a 1.1%
decrease y-o-y. There has been no change to the revised forecasts announced
with the interim results Sales are forecast to increase
due to factors including the sales of mainstay healthcare wear and doctor’s
wear incorporating the delayed renewal demand for large scale contracts, the
launch of high value-added products, and in addition the steady growth in sales
of patient ware and surgical ware. Further, the Company continues to focus on
raising its market share in central Japan and western Japan, and it is
targeting increases in sales and profit (operating profit) for the full fiscal
year. Recurring profit is forecast to decline as a foreign exchange gain is not
expected to be recorded. But if the yen rate continues to trend around its
current level, it is highly likely that recurring profit will increase. Factors affecting full-year gross profit y-o-y are expected to
be increases of ¥223mn from higher sales and ¥53mn from the further expansion
in the percentage of production conducted overseas (forecast to increase from
43.1% in FY8/14 to 44.4% by FY8/15 year-end) and decreases of ¥58mn due to
increased material and processing costs and ¥89mn due to exchange rate effects
(with the yen depreciating from an actual average rate of ¥88.1 to the US
dollar in FY8/14 to a projected average rate of ¥93.3 for FY8/15). As a result,
gross profit in this fiscal period is forecast to be ¥7,682 mn (up ¥96mn, or
1.3%, y-o-y) and the gross margin to be 46.0% (down from 46.8% in the previous
fiscal year).While there is a concern over
cost increases due to the weak yen, it is unlikely that negative effects will
emerge all at once since the Company has entered into foreign exchange forward
contracts and so forth. However, while on the one hand the effects of the weak
yen are actually starting to gradually appear, on the other hand the Company
plans to absorb some of the higher costs through transferring to the new plant,
as described below, and the effects of this are also starting to appear. A
number of general uniform manufacturers have already raised the prices of their
products, but the Company has not; therefore there is still room to improve the
sales cost ratio by raising prices in the worst case scenario. SG&A costs are forecast to be ¥2,751mn (a 3.3% increase
y-o-y), reflecting an expected increase in depreciation costs of ¥35mn
associated with the new company headquarters and ¥30mn for costs related to the
Company’s 100th anniversary. The y-o-y decrease in recurring profit assumes
that the foreign exchange gains (¥87mn) and the gain on securities sold (¥67mn)
recorded in non-operating profit in FY8/14 will decline. However, if the yen
weakens further by the end of FY8/15 compared to FY8/14, it is possible that
the decline in profits will be less than anticipated, and depending on
circumstances, recurring profit may actually increase y-o-y. Furthermore, since
the extraordinary profit that was recorded in FY8/14 (the ¥115mn profit on the
sale of the old headquarters) will not occur in FY8/15, and revisions to the
tax system are expected to increase the amount of corporate tax payable, net
profit is forecast to decline y-o-y, but may increase depending on the level of
recurring profit.◆Mid-term Management Plan and Outlook Mid-term targets look
conservative and very achievable (1) Mid-term Management Plan The
Company had set sales of ¥16,800mn and operating profit of ¥5,100mn as the
targets for FY8/16 in its Mid-Term Management Plan. But given the strong
possibility of it meeting these targets in FY8/15, it has released new targets
for the Mid-Term Management Plan for FY8/17, with sales of ¥17,500mn and
operating profit of ¥5,300mn. It plans to develop its business by implementing
the policies described below, but considering its business environment, these
targets can be considered fairly conservative and are very achievable. The
operating environment is currently favorable (2)
Future business strategies The operating environment surrounding the Company should be
favorable for some time. According to the material released by the Ministry of
Health, Labour and Welfare, the number of nurses in Japan is projected to
increase from 1.54 million in 2012 to a maximum of 2.06 million in 2025.
Moreover, the number of care workers is projected to increase from 1.49 million
in 2012 to 2.49 million in 2025. In this operating environment, the Company
plans to achieve its Mid-Term Management Plan based on the following
strategies.●Expansion in patient, surgical & other peripheral market In its mainstay healthcare wear, the Company already maintains a
high market share and can expect stable renewal demand. On the other hand, the
peripheral market for patient wear and surgical wear and others still has
development potential. The Company plans to focus on expanding the peripheral
market by launching new products.●Increase market share in western Japan By region, the Company maintains a high market share in eastern
Japan, but in central Japan and western Japan, it has relatively low market
shares. In other words, these regions have potential for further market share
growth. To expand its market share, the Company will not only conduct an
aggressive sales campaign, but will actively launch advanced-function products
and new products.●Development and sales of advanced-function product The Company is actively developing products with even greater
functionality and added value to deliver added value to markets where it is
already strong, and to serve as tools for its marketing strategy in markets
where it seeks to increase its market share. To that end, its strategy is to
collaborate more closely with material manufacturers and trading companies
while further refining its Quick Response (QR) production system to raise
customer satisfaction.●Improving gross margin In
the last 20 years, the Company’s profit margin has improved approximately 12
percentage points (from around 35% to 47%). In the future, although improving
profitability at the same pace as before will not be easy, the Company aims to
make further improvements mainly through the following measures. The
first is to increase overseas production. Currently, the Company’s ratio of
overseas production is still around 45.2%, which is low when compared to other
apparel manufacturers. In other words, there is considerable room to further
increase the overseas production ratio with potential for improving
profitability from expansion of overseas production. However, the Company’s
policy is not to shift domestic production all at once to overseas, but rather
to produce the portion of increased sales overseas while maintaining domestic
production volumes. In February 2014, a new factory, which had been under
construction in Java in central Indonesia, began operation, and it is expected
that by the end of 2015, the transfer of existing production from Jakarta will
have been completed. The
second measure to improve profitability is the development of high value-added
products. If the percentage of sales of products with high profit margins, such
as advanced-function products, increases, the overall gross margin will also
improve. Furthermore, while there have been no official announcements, the
Company continues to develop new markets, and its plans for new markets (new
products) should also contribute to improving its gross margins in the future. The yen’s depreciation is also a major factor weighing down
profitability. As a countermeasure to this, the Company’s policy is to make
active use of futures contracts to level out the effects of exchange rate
fluctuations, while using U.S. dollar deposits to hedge against the
fluctuations as much as possible.◆Shareholder Return Policy Actively and comprehensively
returning profits to shareholders, including through share buy-backs The
Company’s shareholders’ equity ratio has reached 89.5% (Q3 FY8/15) and it is
financially stable. Additionally, considering the Company’s business
conditions, it seems highly unlikely that those profits will rapidly
deteriorate, so continued stable earnings are expected. As a result, as its
distribution of earnings outside the Company (particularly dividend payments)
is low and profits will accumulate in shareholders’ equity each year, return on
equity (ROE) will decline, which is to say, capital efficiency will decline. But
in addition to paying dividends commensurate with the growth in profits, the
Company actively and comprehensively returns profits to shareholders, including
through share buy-backs, and as a result has maintained a high ROE (9.5% in
FY8/14) In addition to the share buy-back of 1 million shares (¥1,500mn)
already implemented in the current fiscal year through a TOB, the Company has
announced it will pay a dividend of ¥50 to commemorate its 100th anniversary.
As this will be combined with the normal annual dividend of ¥50, the full year
dividend is forecast to be ¥100, which will likely give a dividend payout ratio
of 107.9% (nonconsolidated basis) against the expected net profit. Even when
taking into account the commemorative dividend, this percentage is a remarkably
high compared to those of other listed companies. This demonstrates that the
Company is extremely aware of returning profits to shareholders and maintaining
capital efficiency, and it can be highly evaluated on these points. 報告內容僅供參考，不得作為任何投資引用之唯一依據，且其投資風險及決定應由投資人自行判斷並自負損益。