FunaiConsultingIncorporated(JP-9757)TokyoStockExchangeFirstSectionEnteringaGrowthStagethroughConsolidatedManagement
  2015-06-30 提供機構：FISCO 作者：FISCO 點閱次數：18   

Funai
Soken Holdings (9757) is one of the leading firms and a pioneer in the small
and medium-sized enterprise business consulting industry. It provides services
such as consulting, management workshops, and seminars for industries including
housing and real estate, leisure and amusement, and professional services. The
Company’s business model is highly innovative, forming latent customer networks
through management workshops by industry and thematically, and by proposing and
supporting timely, successful business models, establishes structures that can
deliver appropriate management support in accordance with the management status
of corporate clients, as well as strengthens the Company’s customer base. In
FY12/14, the Company reached record highs for net sales and operating income.
The most recent operating results in Q1 FY12/15 also showed a sound start with
net sales of ¥3,305mn (+11.7% YoY) and operating income of ¥941mn (+17.1% YoY).
In its core business consulting segment, it succeeded in being both selective
and focused, displaying significant growth. From a financial perspective,
against a backdrop of formidable profitability (with a Q1 FY12/15 operating
profit margin of 28.5%), it possesses a plentiful supply of cash and ample
ability to invest. In order to promote consolidated
management, Funai Soken moved to a holding company structure in July 2014. The
Company’s
objective has been to proactively expand businesses peripheral to consulting
through M&As and commercial alliances. In March 2015, it announced a
commercial alliance with the Mirai Consulting Group which engages in consulting
in areas including: accounting and taxation, M&As, corporate succession,
business revitalization, corporate restructuring, IPOs, international
operations, and HR and labor issues. Specifics of the scheme are pending.◆Corporate Outline On
a growth track through consolidated management under its fourth president (1)
History The
Company was established by the late Mr. Yukio Funai in 1970, with its core
business in comprehensive diagnosis of corporate management. With the founder’s
charismatic nature and hit publications, Funai Soken steadily expanded
operations, having succeeded in forming a member organization of small- and
medium-sized enterprises focusing on the distribution industry, and was the
first company in the consulting industry to list its shares in 1988 (being a
Specially Designated Stock on the 2nd Section of the Osaka Stock Exchange).
From the 1990s, the baton was passed to the second president, with a shift in
customers from predominantly the distribution industry to the service industry.
Under the current fourth president, who was appointed in 2010, the scope of
operations has been expanded to areas peripheral to consulting, with a shift to
a holding company structure in 2014 and strengthening of consolidated
management structures. Business
consulting forms the basis of net sales and operating income (2)
Business Overview The
business consulting segment forms the core, representing 87% of net sales and
97% of operating income (FY12/14). Management support for small and
medium-sized enterprises in industries such as housing and real estate, leisure
and amusement, professional services, restaurants and food services, and
medical and nursing care comprise the Company’s main focus. As of FYE12/14, 452
consultants were engaged in an annual number of 4,262 corporate consulting
contracts. From FY12/14, Funai Soken Logistics
Inc. became part of the Group, forming the logistics segment, as part of a
strategy to enter businesses peripheral to consulting. It constitutes 11.4% of
net sales and 1.1% of operating income of the Group (FY12/14).Management
workshops key to marketing activities (3)
Key Business Model Characteristic 1: Management Workshops The
approach which has supported high growth in recent years has been having
management workshops by industry type and thematically. As of FYE12/14, there
are 148 workshops engaging in activities such as study groups and model company
inspections for 4,213 paying corporate members. The nature of pan-industry
exchanges promotes the gathering of management, however, these workshops are
focused on specific industry types and themes, where the purpose is clear. For
example, in the housing and real estate industry, workshops the Company
presides are extremely specific and divided into groups such as the
“FAST-Reform Workshop,” the “Rental Management Business Workshop,” the “Housing
for Senior Citizens Workshop,” the “Northern European Modern Housing Workshop,”
and the “Zero Yen Utility Cost Housing Workshop.” Given that existing clients
also participate, both the actual state and benefits of business consulting are
easily transmitted by word of mouth. The “Zubari Solution,” referred to later,
also originated from and was refined by such a workshop. Additionally, these management
workshops, as well the acquisition of special characteristics and perspectives
of managers through communication between young consultants and clients,
constitute an opportunity to collect, analyze, and study raw management data,
which is also linked to early HR development.Proposing
a specific plan that is readily implemented and allows results to grow
dramatically (4)
Key Business Model Characteristic 2: The “Zubari Solution” The
“Zubari Solution” (pin-point solution) is an original Funai Soken term that
means “a business model pertinent to the times within that industry that if put
into practice now will allow the client to aim for dramatic results
improvement.” In typical business consulting, the normal path is to propose a
customized package of solutions after undertaking management diagnosis.
However, the Company has the opposite idea. It prepares a successful business
model in advance, and attracts clients that approve of that model. Within
any number of solutions, by way of example, “Specializing in low-cost, light
vehicles! ¥398,000” is a Zubari Solution in the used car industry, as is
“Succeeding in ultra-low-cost housing in as little as six months” in the
residential construction industry. In dental clinics, it may be a “Crown
(including dowel post and core) for ¥49,800 covered by insurance” campaign or a
“One-stop service including a residual disability assessment after a traffic
accident” campaign in the legal industry. Zubari
Solutions are the accumulation of detailed know-how, and require continuous
support in implementation. Most of the Company’s consulting contract terms are
initially for half a year, with renewals in one year increments, many of which
continue for lengthy periods. Even young consultants can accumulate a track record
and gain independence quickly by taking charge of multiple projects with the
same solution. Where
youth can play an active role (5)
Key Business Model Characteristic 3: HR Management It
goes without saying that the business consulting industry is its consultants,
that is, human resources. Funai Soken has increased net sales along with its
increases in consultants. Currently, Funai Soken boasts 452 consultants
(FY12/14, an increase of 27 consultants YoY), giving it the largest scale in
Japan within the industry. Moreover, there was a time for the Company when it
relied on “superstar” consultants. However, at present it has established
systems that enable track records to be built-up rapidly, and structures where
the team as a whole creates added value. The Company is ranked 67th in
popularity among job-seeking students (Diamond, Inc. 2014, Listed in the Top
100 for male humanities graduates for 10 consecutive years), and has no
impediments to recruiting, even including mid-career hires. The average length
of employment trends around 7.5 years, with no observable trend for staff loss
which is common in the consulting industry. The Company’s
strength lies in the fact that management workshops, Zubari Solutions and human
resources management are intertwined, creating a robust business model.Group
creation as a part of strengthening peripheral businesses (6)
Special Features of the Logistics Segment Within the logistics segment,
logistics operation business (sales of ¥883mn,
FY12/14) is the largest component, which includes agency services for the
design, development, and execution of logistics operations for corporate
clients. In FY12/14, the existing customer retention rate reached 100%, and it
significantly increased sales (+¥311mn YoY). Including logistics
consulting and trading operations (joint procurement), in all operations, Group
companies aim to improve results through (realizing) synergies.◆Performance Trends Net
sales and operating income reached all-time highs Full-year
business results trends for FY12/14 Full-year FY12/14 net sales were ¥12,485mn
(+24.0% YoY) and operating income of ¥2,992mn
(+14.0% YoY), with both net sales and operating income setting new record
highs. Regarding the plan at the beginning of the period, targets were achieved
for net sales and all profits. The rise in the cost of sales ratio may be seen
as resulting from an increased proportion of businesses, such as the logistics
segment, which have differing costs structures. Also, the reduction in the
amount of net profit compared to the previous year is due to the presence of
extraordinary factors in FY12/13 (the impact of depressed corporate taxes and
other items associated with the dissolution of a subsidiary), with the actual
value in FY12/14 in line with the Company’s
plan (or 1.0% above plan).The rise in net sales may be divided
into that part of the growth that came from the business consulting segment (¥1,003mn,
+10.2% YoY) and the additional part that came from the new addition of the
logistics segment (with net sales of ¥1,418mn). By
industry type and theme, net sales from the business consulting segment showed
housing and real estate ranked 1st, leisure and amusement ranked 2nd, and
professional services ranked 3rd; when examining sales growth rates, medical
and nursing care ranked 1st, restaurants and food services ranked 2nd, and
housing and real estate ranked 3rd. In particular, in respect of the medical
and nursing care, which had the highest growth rate, it is felt that the
formation of a specialist team in October 2014 contributed to performance, and
that strategic measures definitely linked to results. Given that, in recent
years, there has been a strategy of strengthening areas of core competence and
other areas of focus, it is forecast that this will deliver a different level
of growth to that of top ranking industries.Ample
cash and an extremely robust financial condition Financial
status As
of FYE12/14, the financial position is sound. Total assets rose ¥1,834mn
compared to the previous year-end to ¥20,437mn. The main increase was a rise of
¥1,790mn in cash and deposits, with expansion in operational scale being the
main cause. The balance of cash and deposits was ¥5,876mn, which represents
ample cash reserves. On
the other hand, liabilities increased ¥1,093mn from the previous year-end to
¥3,783mn. The main increase was a rise of ¥1,651mn in current liabilities with
items such as accrued taxes payable and bonds payable within one year being the
main causes. Among management indices (FY12/14),
both the current ratio (283.0%) and the shareholders’
equity ratio (81.1%) are extremely high, providing superior stability. In terms
of profitability, its ROA (15.5%) and operating profit margin (24.0%) are
outstanding.◆Current Period Outlook
Plans
for increased sales and earnings for full-year FY12/15, sound progress in Q1 Q1
FY12/15 results & full-year outlook The FY12/15 full-year outlook forecasts
net sales of ¥13,500mn
(+8.1% YoY), operating income of ¥3,100mn (+3.6% YoY), ordinary income
of ¥3,150mn
(+4.0% YoY), and net income of ¥1,850mn (+4.7% YoY). Looking at the
most recent actual results for Q1, we see a significant increase in sales and earnings,
with net sales of ¥3,305mn (+11.7% YoY), operating income of ¥941mn
(+17.1% YoY), ordinary income of ¥1,020mn (+23.6% YoY), and net income
of ¥633mn
(+44.2% YoY). The Company is also performing soundly in terms of the rate of
progress, with 24.5% for net sales and 30.4% for operating income. In the core
business consulting segment, factors such as member numbers in management
workshops increasing steadily and orders for assisted consulting increasing
significantly are driving results. In February 2015, Proceed K.K., which
engages in contact center consulting, was made a wholly owned subsidiary, and
additional contributions to results are expected.◆Growth Strategies Second
year of the Medium-term Management Plan shows Funai Soken performing soundly as
prioritization of the four core segments shows results Medium-term
Management Plan and expanding the scope of operations The Medium-term Management Plan,
having FY12/14 as its initial year and FY12/16 as its final year, is in
progress. It aims for net sales of ¥15.0bn and
operating income of ¥3.4bn. Against the benchmark year (FY12/13), this is 1.5
times increase for net sales and 1.3 times increase for operating income. The
initial year achieved plan targets, carrying out plan execution with certainty.
The shift to a holding company structure (July 2014) was completed in
accordance with the plan, with shared company Funai Soken Corporate Relations spun-off
and Funai Soken Logistics Inc. made a subsidiary. The key plan priorities for
FY12/15 are concentrating management resources on promising consulting markets
and strengthening businesses peripheral to consulting.Focusing
on promising consulting markets The
Company is building a plan that prioritizes investment in order to capture the
leading position for recognition and market share in Japan in its three core
fields (housing and real estate, leisure and amusement, and professional
services), as well as the next growth field, medical and nursing care. The net
sales growth rate in the four fields noted above was 18.3% (FY12/14),
significantly exceeding the overall growth rate for the business consulting
industry of 10.2%, with prioritization of the four core segments showing
results. Proactive
development utilizing M&As and commercial alliances Strengthening
businesses peripheral to consulting As regards the future scope of
operations, while keeping the business consulting segment as the nucleus, Funai
Soken aims to expand its scope of operations to businesses that are peripheral
to consulting, and provide higher quality, more comprehensive consulting
services. Businesses peripheral to consulting may be categorized into three
domains: growth support, HR development support, and revitalization support. In
the growth support domain, corporate structures are being developed fully, in
addition to Group companies for logistics, IT, and the contact center. In the
HR development support domain, the Company is striving to fully develop
recruitment and HR development consulting service products that are fully
conversant with industry characteristics and work milieus by using sector
specialist consultants. The development of structures in the revitalization support
domain is currently in progress via initiatives such as the commercial alliance
with Mirai Consulting noted above. Funai Soken’s
policy is to proactively consider approaches, including commercial alliances
and M&As.As part of tackling the revitalization
support domain, Funai Soken reached an agreement with Mirai Consulting on a
commercial alliance in March 2015. Funai Soken, with its forte in improving
results, and the Mirai Consulting Group, which is a specialist organization
covering accounting, taxation, legal, HR, and labor and other areas, are
mutually complementary. To cite an M&A example, we can provide coherent
consulting from the pre-deal to the post-deal that increases corporate value.
Attention will be focused on specifics of the collaboration scheme and the
degree of impact it will have.◆Shareholder Returns
Policy Maintaining
a high payout ratio of ¥34 for the full-year The
Company has a policy of emphasizing an appropriate distribution of profits to
shareholders, while raising the amount of dividends sustainably. A payout ratio
of around 50% is the yardstick. The annual amount of in FY12/14 was ¥32 (¥15
H1, ¥17 H2), forming a payout ratio of 51.1%. The policy for FY12/15 is also
the same, with an annual amount of dividends per share of ¥34 (¥15 H1, ¥19 H2),
and payout ratio of 52.0% expected. Also, the Company is implementing a share
buyback, reflecting a proactive stance on shareholder returns. As for other shareholder rewards,
Funai Soken awards QUO cards to its shareholders. The Company distributes book
tokens or QUO cards with a value up to ¥10,000
according to the number of shares held by the shareholder as of December 31. 報告內容僅供參考，不得作為任何投資引用之唯一依據，且其投資風險及決定應由投資人自行判斷並自負損益。