SUN-WATECHNOSCORPORATION(JP-8137)TokyoStockExchangeFirstSectionFY3/15SeesSecondConsecutiveYearofRecordProfits,FY3/16ImportantYearforNextMedium-termManagementPlan(I)
  2015-07-08 提供機構：FISCO 作者：FISCO 點閱次數：15   

Sun-Wa Technos Corporation
(8137) is a trading company that specializes in technology products. Its three
divisions are electrical machinery, electronics, and general machinery. The
company has grown by selling equipment and materials for the production lines
of manufacturers, mainly through its electrical machinery and general machinery
divisions, then selling the products made by these manufacturers, mainly
through its electronics division. The company calls this arrangement two-way
trade. In the fiscal year through
March 2015, i.e., in FY3/15, the company achieved record-high sales and profits
for the second year in a row, and its profits were in line with the targets in
its medium-term management plan, JUMP 1200. Because sales of some products in
Japan declined y-o-y, the company’s total sales in Japan grew
only 5.5% y-o-y, but its sales in other parts of Asia jumped 23.4%, and its
sales in Europe and the US rose 7.5%. Thus, total consolidated net sales
increased 9.8% y-o-y. Gross profit expanded 10.3% y-o-y, more than offsetting
an increase in SG&A expenses, so operating income grew 8.1%. For FY3/16, the company’s medium-term plan calls for consolidated net sales of \120.0bn
and ordinary income of \4.7bn, but the company has forecast sales of \119.0bn
and ordinary income of \3.8bn. We believe that the company included only
definite sales in its sales forecast, while it accounted for all possible costs
for future growth. Thus, we consider the company’s forecasts to be conservative. The company’s main suppliers have released more aggressive forecasts than
the company has. The company has not released
details of its next medium-term plan, which begins in FY3/17. Although it
continues to report record-high results, it has many problems. We believe that
by solving these problems, the company will achieve growth. Among the
challenges facing the company are the need to increase its business with
non-Japanese companies, to strengthen its engineering business, and to control
costs more effectively than it has to date. FY3/16 is an important year for the
company because it is the last year of its current medium-term plan and the
year to prepare its next plan. We believe that it is more important for the
company to take meaningful steps to insure medium-term growth this year than it
is to achieve business targets.◆Corporate Overview A trader of electrical machinery, electronics, and
general machinery (1) History and Operational
Overview The company was established as
a proprietorship in 1946 by Tokuro Yamada. It was incorporated in 1949 as
Yamada Kogyo Kabushiki Kaisha and developed as an independent trader of
technology products. Its three main businesses, electrical machinery,
electronics, and general machinery, are linked through two-way trade. The users of electrical
machinery, electronics and general machinery vary, as do the factors that drive
demand for these products. A company that tries to handle all three fields runs
the risk of gaining a broad but shallow understanding of and information about
the products and the technologies behind them. However, Sun-Wa Technos has
developed expertise in all three fields, enabling it to thrive as a trader of
technology products. We understand that two-way
trade has been an important factor behind the success of the company’s business structure. Two-way trade involves the supply of
general machinery, including industrial robots and other types of manufacturing
equipment, and electrical machinery, such as industrial motors and inverters,
for the production lines and products of manufacturers and the sale of the
electronics, mainly components and equipment, made by these manufacturers. The
company developed two-way trade over time while accumulating knowledge and
experience, and it is a distinctive strength.Sun-Wa Technos serves a wide
range of industries, but about one-quarter of its customers produce factory
automation equipment or other kinds of industrial equipment. This concentration
reflects the fact that the general machinery business and the electrical
machinery business cater mainly to manufacturers of industrial equipment.
However, the electronics division provides somewhat more than 70% of the
company’s total sales, as it sells a wide range
of components, from semiconductors and general electronic parts to electric
power sources and sensors, to a far-flung array of industries, including
manufacturers of industrial equipment. As a result, it is difficult to break
down the company’s sales by industry. Broadly
speaking, the electrical machinery business and the general machinery business
are geared to trends of capital investment in Japan, while the electronics
business is geared to trends in industrial production.Developing overseas business, mainly in Asia, in response
to customer requests (2) Overseas Business For the past several decades,
Japanese manufacturers have been moving operations overseas to cope with such
challenges as yen appreciation and trade friction. Since most of Sun-Wa Technos’s customers are Japanese manufacturers, the company has also
developed overseas operations in response to customer requests. Since the
company mainly deals with production facilities-related products and Japanese
companies’ overseas plants are in other Asian
countries, that is also where most of Sun-Wa Technos’s overseas offices are located.The company’s overseas business has been growing, but it serves other
Japanese companies almost exclusively. As detailed in a later section, we
believe that an expansion of its overseas business to serve non-Japanese
companies, while not easy, would provide great growth potential, if successful.◆Status of medium-term management plan, JUMP 1200 Business results in line with targets in the eighth
medium-term management plan, JUMP 1200 (1) Summary FY3/16 is the last year of the
company’s eighth medium-term management plan,
called JUMP1200. The policies being pursued through this plan aim to expand
global business, enhance corporate value, strengthen the company’s organization, and improve its profitability. To achieve these
goals, priority measures include the strengthening of engineering capabilities,
business in emerging economies, the development of new growth markets, and the
establishment of new businesses. The company plans to implement
the concrete steps described below as part of its priority measures. Some time
will be required before many of these actions contribute fully to sales and
profit growth, but the plan has not been hollowed out. We applaud management
for diligently implementing measures to achieve growth over the medium-to-long
term. In the first two years of the current medium-term plan, business results
have been in line with plan.Renew and integrate organization, improve sales
capability (2) Strengthen role of the
main sales division This step is being taken to
realize the priority measure of building an organization that enhances our
integrated electrical machinery, electronics, and general machinery businesses
and our engineering capabilities as much as possible.On April 1, 2015, the company
renewed and integrated its organization to strengthen its sales capability. To
bolster its engineering business, it established a new engineering department
within the main sales division, separate from an industrial solutions
department. At the same time, it set up two other new specialist departments in
the sales division, an office to promote biomedical applications, and a
department to sell automotive products. The engineering business
proposes and sells total solutions combining systems, rather than individual
products, in the electrical machinery and general machinery businesses. The new
organization allows Sun-We Technos to assume the role of a coordinator of
business. The industrial solutions department gathers information from
suppliers and other external parties and conceives of projects, while the engineering
department designs, proposes and installs the systems needed for these
projects.Sun-Wa Technos Asia (Thailand)
has been building an engineering business for several years, and has completed
20–30 projects. In 2015, this subsidiary
projects sales of about \2.6bn, of which, \550mn is to come from engineering
business. Sun-Wa Technos’s reorganization aims to apply
the success of its engineering business in Thailand to build a global
engineering business.Plans to establish subsidiaries in Mexico and the
Philippines in FY3/16 (3) Developing subsidiaries in
developing economies In August 2013, the first year
of the JUMP1200 medium-term plan, Sun-Wa Technos opened a representative office
in Hanoi, Vietnam. This office is part of the Sun-Wa Technos subsidiary in Hong
Kong, but the office is generating annual sales of more than \1bn, so Sun-Wa
Technos is considering elevating the status of the unit to a subsidiary. In
October 2014, Sun-Wa Technos opened a subsidiary in Jakarta, Indonesia. As the
Thai subsidiary seeks to support the construction of production facilities by
companies entering the Thai market, the Indonesian subsidiary seeks to support
the construction of production facilities by companies entering the Indonesian
market, with a prime emphasis on engineering business. In FY3/16, Sun-Wa Technos
plans to open subsidiaries in Mexico and the Philippines. The Mexican
subsidiary will concentrate on providing goods and services to the automotive
industry, while the Philippine subsidiary will target the assembly of precision
equipment. The U.S. subsidiary of Sun-Wa Technos, Sun-Wa Technos America, Inc.,
has offices in Illinois and South Carolina, but Sun-Wa Technos is thinking
about opening a third office in the US to deal with an anticipated rise in demand
from certain customers.Improving sales approach to four growth markets,
including new energy (4) Promoting negotiations
targeting growth markets The company’s electronics business caters to a wider array of clients than
its other businesses. Of course, it aims to increase the number of its
customers, but it is particularly targeting four growth markets, new energy,
energy saving, medical treatment and home care, and social infrastructure. In FY3/15, Sun-Wa Technos’s three businesses negotiated about \12.7bn of transactions with
companies in these four growth markets. This was almost \1bn more than the
\11.8bn forecast by the company at the end of H1 FY3/15. Some of these
negotiations contributed to sales in FY3/15, and some will contribute to sales
in FY3/16, while others won’t contribute at all. The
company now estimates that its businesses will negotiate \16.6bn of
transactions with companies in the four growth markets in FY3/16. Based on
experience, about 30% of the negotiated amount will be realized as sales. Thus,
sales to these growth markets are likely to continue to grow. 報告內容僅供參考，不得作為任何投資引用之唯一依據，且其投資風險及決定應由投資人自行判斷並自負損益。