Hottolink,Inc.(JP-3680)TSEMothersTargetingFasterGrowthintheSocialBigDataFieldFollowingAcquisitions(I)
  2015-03-04 提供機構：FISCO 作者：FISCO 點閱次數：28   

Hottolink (3680) has been
growing on the back of cloud-based services that utilize data posted on blogs
and social media such as Twitter. In January 2015, Hottolink acquired
Effyis.inc, a U.S.-based social media data provider, for US$22mn (service brand
name: Socialgist, hereafter “Socialgist”). As a social media data platform service company, Hottolink is
now positioned to target faster growth eyeing the global market. Looking at the Company’s consolidated business performance in FY12/14, Hottolink is
forecasting higher sales and lower earnings. Net sales are projected at
\1,019mn, up 8.1% year on year, and operating income is projected at \147mn,
down 7.0% year on year. The main factor behind the lower earnings outlook is
higher personnel costs due to an increase in the workforce, amid sluggish sales
in the cloud service business, which includes services such as
kuchikomi@kakaricho. This weak sales outlook reflects a low retention rate for
services targeting medium-sized companies. Hottolink will tackle these issues
by launching upgraded versions of kuchikomi@kakaricho and e-mining that reflect
the needs of medium-sized companies from the end of 2014 to the early 2015, in
addition to increasing customer convenience mainly by making services available
on smart devices. Through these measures, Hottolink will strive to improve the
retention rate, with the aim of achieving double-digit growth in net sales. The performance outlook for
FY12/15 calls for large increases in sales and earnings due to the conversion
of Socialgist into a subsidiary in January 2015. In FY12/14, Socialgist is
expected to post net sales of approximately \1,100mn and operating income of
approximately \100mn on a yen basis. It follows that at least the same amount
of operating income as in FY12/14 should be added to Hottolink’s consolidated results in FY12/15. Social big data is not only
being utilized by an increasing number of companies in marketing fields, but is
also expanding to a range of other sectors such as finance, politics and mass
media. Therefore, Hottolink has substantial growth potential based on its
advanced analytical expertise and development capabilities in social big data. Overseas, Hottolink plans to push ahead with M&As in the
Southeast Asian market, where economic growth is expected. The Company’s future expansion offers strong prospects, factoring in
synergies with Socialgist. Looking at management targets for the near term,
Hottolink is targeting net sales of \2,418mn and operating income of \544mn by
FY12/15 or FY12/16. Considering the anticipated increase in the number of
customers through the launch of new services in Japan and the conversion of Socialgist
into a subsidiary, Hottolink is firmly on track to achieving those targets.
Therefore, earnings are projected to enter an expansionary phase in step with
growth in the social big data market.◆Corporate Outline An innovative company focused on technological
development, driving expansion in social media analysis services (1) Corporate History In June 2000, Mr. Koki
Uchiyama, the current President and CEO, founded Hottolink Inc. The Company’s mission is to “Make the world ‘Hotto’ (‘relief’) place for all people by
building infrastructure for a knowledge intensive society.” Mr. Uchiyama has been involved in the development of Internet
technology from the infancy of the Internet market. Notably, as a graduate
student in 1995, he participated in the Japan Search Engine development project
to create Japan’s first Internet search engine. Although the search engine
development project faltered due to the subsequent emergence of the Yahoo! and
Google search engines, Mr. Uchiyama used the technical expertise he obtained
through this experience to found Hottolink in 2000. The Company developed a
tool bar that allows a “Like” button to be put on websites, and launched a “Social Bookmark” service that gathers users’ favorite websites. Analysis of websites gathered in this way
made it possible to grasp user preferences, paving the way for the subsequent
development of recommendation engines and the launch of related services. Back
then, Hottolink’s sales were sluggish because the
technologies it provided were far ahead of market needs at the time. However,
even in the early 2000s Hottolink had already developed a service that predated
the “Like” function of today’s Facebook. In so doing,
Hottolink laid a solid foundation as an innovative company focused on
technology development. Thereafter, the Internet industry started to see rapid growth in
the popularity of individual blogs and social media sites, such as 2channel.
Hottolink began expanding analysis services based on articles posted on social
media sites. Beginning with the launch of blog analysis in 2005, Hottolink
acquired the Dentsu Buzz Research service (social big data analysis service)
from Gala Buzz Inc. in 2008. That year, Hottolink fully rolled out the
kuchikomi@kakaricho social media analysis tool, its current core service. In
2012, Hottolink added the e-mining social media risk monitoring service to its
lineup by converting into a wholly owned subsidiary (to be conducted through an
absorption-type merger later in the same year) Gala Buzz, which had previously
provided the e-mining service.In social media analysis services, Hottolink must purchase data,
such as posted articles, that are owned by social media sites. Hottolink has
entered into agreements with various operating companies, data providers and
other entities to acquire the marketing and usage rights to social media data
of major social networking service (SNS) providers such as 2channel, Twitter
and Sina Weibo, in addition to blogs. In June 2014, Hottolink entered into a
business alliance with Socialgist, which holds global marketing rights to data
on Sina Weibo, China’s largest SNS site. Through
this alliance, Hottolink has acquired exclusive marketing agent rights to Sina
Weibo data in the Asia Pacific region outside China.One of only a few companies generating earnings in the
big data market (2) Business Overview Guided by its business concept of “Big Data x Social x Cloud,” Hottolink is pushing ahead with business development initiatives.
In the past few years, an increasing number of companies have begun to utilize
big data as a key tool in their marketing strategies. Going forward, some
observers estimate Japan’s big data-related market will
grow by more than 40% a year, and surpass \100 billion by 2017.Against this backdrop, the
current reality is that hardly any independent companies among those providing
big data services are actually generating profits. One reason for this is
believed to be that the entrants in each layer of the big data market are
fragmented among data-owning companies, IT infrastructure companies, analysis
engine providers and application development companies. In contrast, Hottolink’s strength lies in its ability to provide one-stop services
spanning all layers. The Company is also attracting attention as an enterprise
that has already established a profitable business model in the big data
market. Hottolink currently discloses information in three business
segments: the SaaS*
Business, the
Solution Business and Others (melody and ringtone services). The chart below
classifies the products and services of the core SaaS Business and the Solution
Services Business segments by layer and billing format.○SaaS Business The SaaS Business currently
accounts for approximately 70% of net sales. In this business, Hottolink is
expanding services through two products: (1) kuchikomi@kakaricho, a social
media analysis tool; and (2) e-mining, a risk monitoring tool. The price
structure for each of these services consists of an initial registration fee of
\100,000 and a monthly usage fee starting from \100,000. The monthly usage fee
is calculated on the number of usable IDs, the number of media subject to
analysis, data capacity and other factors. Some large corporate customers spend
up to \1mn a month to use these services. The number of corporate
subscribers is over 1,700 for the two services combined on a cumulative basis.
Of this, there are currently approximately 500 active corporate subscribers.
The industry breakdown shows corporate subscribers span a wide range of
sectors, from consumer goods manufacturers to the services and finance sectors.
Approximately 80% of the corporate users are major corporations. kuchikomi@kakaricho has the
following features. It possesses Japan’s
largest social media coverage and it is easy to operate and perform real-time
searches, such as trend analysis and attribute analysis. It also has functions
such as cross-media analysis spanning television, Web news sites and other
media, plus a data import analysis function to perform text mining of data held
internally by corporate customers (questionnaires and call logs, etc.). The scope of data coverage is
of particular importance to social media analysis. Hottolink has a dominant
advantage in Japan in terms of the sheer amount of social data it possesses.
For example, the Company holds all historical data on the 2channel bulletin
board site and has entered into a marketing agency agreement with Gnip, Inc.,
which markets Twitter data worldwide. In addition, Hottolink covers
approximately 90% of blogs in Japan (more than 37 million bloggers).
Incidentally, SNS platforms such as Facebook and LINE both have a large amount
of users, and Hottolink collects certain data from these platforms on a limited
basis. However, Hottolink does not put particular emphasis on these SNS
platforms. There are two reasons. First, this data carries relatively low
importance for corporations because these SNS platforms are closed community
sites focused on interactions between “Friends.” Second, these SNS platforms do not provide data to third
parties without the consent of users. The kuchikomi@kakaricho tool
can be applied promptly to a company’s
marketing initiatives through real-time features such as trend analysis. For
example, previously companies would almost always produce and broadcast only
one TV commercial for a new product. Recently, companies have been producing
several different TV commercials for a new product and broadcasting them over
the same time period. Next, kuchikomi@kakaricho is employed to analyze the
number of online responses to each of the TV commercials for a certain period.
The companies are able to implement marketing initiatives such as increasing
the exposure of a particular commercial that garnered the largest number of
responses. Ultimately, these measures help to improve ROI for marketing
departments. As marketing capabilities become increasingly crucial to the
competitiveness of companies, kuchikomi@kakaricho can be used in every stage of
marketing, from pre-launch surveys of new products and services, to sales
promotions and advertising, sales, and support. For this reason,
kuchikomi@kakaricho is being steadily adopted primarily by major corporations
as a support tool for enhancing marketing capabilities.Meanwhile, e-mining has main
features that include alert functions based on a system that automatically
collects all postings on 2channel and Twitter, according to pre-set
risk-related keywords. Monitoring covers a wide range beyond 2channel and
Twitter, extending to blogs and various news sites. Each day, e-mining monitors
approximately 13 million web pages and reports search results by category. For
members-only SNS platforms such as Facebook and mixi, Hottolink provides a
separate staffed monitoring service. In the past few years, there
has been a notable increase in the number of cases where the reputations of
companies have been harmed by postings to social media. It has become crucial
for corporate risk management to identify these risks and to implement response
measures at an early stage. e-mining is being adopted primarily by major
corporations as a service that addresses these sorts of needs. ○Solution Business The Solution Business accounts
for 24% of net sales. This segment consists of two different businesses: (1)
the data platform business, which provides systems integrators and other
customers with the data and analysis engines that make up kuchikomi@kakaricho;
and (2) the consulting business developed by subsidiary Hottolink Consulting
Inc. The data platform business
embeds Hottolink’s data and analysis engines
into the products and services of customers such as systems integrators. Embedding
proprietary customer data and social data into mission-critical systems enables
more advanced analysis. The initial deployment fee is \500,000 and monthly
usage fee is based on a tiered billing structure according to the number of
requests. Customers spend between \0.1mn and \3mn on these data platform
services. Meanwhile, the consulting business provides social media analysis
reports to advanced users. Ownership of Japan’s Largest Amount of Social Big Data with Strong Data Analysis
Capabilities and Sales Channels (3) Hottolink’s Strengths In summary, Hottolink has the
following three strengths: (1) The Company has Japan’s largest coverage of social media data; (2) it has world class
big data analysis technologies; and (3) it has strong sales channels. In big data analysis
technologies, Hottolink has received an investment from salesforce.com, Inc., a
global cloud computing services company, and serves as a technical partner of
this firm. Hottolink’s world-class big data
analysis technologies are borne out by the fact that it is the only company in
Japan whose data and analysis engines are embedded in the CRM service of
salesforce.com, Inc. Furthermore, the Company continues to push ahead with the
development of next-generation technologies. Notably, development personnel
account for approximately 41% of Hottolink’s employees (including temporary staff and contractors).
Additionally, Hottolink is conducting joint research and other related
activities by providing data to universities including the University of Tokyo,
Tokyo Institute of Technology, and Waseda University. This joint research
enables Hottolink to recruit some of Japan’s best talent and secure technologies, forming another key
strength of the Company. In regard to sales channels, Hottolink has formed alliances with
9 companies as an OEM partner and solution partner, as noted earlier, and with
4 companies as a sales partner, in an effort to expand sales of its proprietary
products and services. This is in addition to direct sales to customers.◆Financial results trends Performance Falls Below Forecast in First Three Quarters
of FY12/14 (1) Performance Trends for the
Nine Months Ended September 2014 Consolidated financial results for the nine months ended
September 2014 (January to September 2014) were announced on November 7. Net
sales were \735mn, up 10.2% year on year, operating income was \93mn, down
17.0%, ordinary income was \93mn, down 15.3%, and net income for the first
three quarters was \40mn, down 26.0%. Overall, the Company closed its books
with higher sales and lower earnings.The main reason for the lower
earnings was higher personnel costs due to an increase in development and sales
personnel, amid weaker-than-anticipated sales growth in the SaaS Business and
Solution Business. Looking at sales trends in each business, sales in the SaaS
Business rose 3.8% to \554mn. Total subscriptions increased only slightly,
despite steady gains in new subscriptions for both kuchikomi@kakaricho and
e-mining, mainly due to a greater-than-anticipated number of cancellations at
renewal time centered on medium-sized companies. Although the retention rate
for large corporations was high, there were many cancellations by medium-sized
companies. This mainly reflects an inability among medium-sized companies to
use these tools effectively. Even when the tools are used effectively, many
medium-sized companies find that they are unable to take full advantage of the
tools within the vertical hierarchies of their organizations.Net sales in the Solution Business
rose by a steady 38.8% year on year to \175mn. In this segment, the data
platform business saw growth in the number of subscriptions driven by an
ongoing expansion in the application fields for social big data and the “socialization” of enterprise software in
various fields. Meanwhile, sales in the consulting business rose on the back of
a stronger need for social media analysis primarily among major corporations.
However, sales in both of these businesses fell short of the Company’s initial forecasts. Looking at trends in segment sales and operating income on a
quarterly basis, sales growth has been anemic in both the SaaS Business and
Solution Business in the past year, and increases in personnel costs have
pressured earnings in the past two quarters. Given that the Company’s current core businesses are both stock-type cloud service
businesses based on recurring revenues from a fixed customer base, the main
factor behind the weak sales growth is likely to be sluggish growth in the
number of subscriptions since the third quarter of the previous fiscal year.To overcome these challenging conditions, the Company stepped up
initiatives in the third quarter to form business alliances with companies that
utilize social big data and launch new services in the social domain. Details
are shown in the table below.The business alliance with Ideal Marketing Strategist Co., Ltd.
of China consists of a scheme where the Hottolink Group provides Chinese social
media data to Japanese global companies developing business in the Chinese
market, and Ideal Marketing Strategist provides analysis, reporting and
consulting services based on this data.Furthermore, under the
business alliance with FISCO Ltd. (3807), a new service that integrates
Hottolink’s social big data analysis know-how and
FISCO’s stock analysis know-how is scheduled to
be provided as FISCO financial data content. The financial services sector is
already starting to see some U.S. hedge funds make use of social big data as an
investment management tool. Looking ahead, demand for social big data in the
financial services sector is projected to increase. Turning to new services,
Hottolink began providing Social Profiling Data* in August. This data is expected to serve
as a tool that helps advertisement distributors to more precisely distribute
targeted advertisements based on user interests and concerns. The data is also
expected to boost the effectiveness of recommendations on developing new
customers in corporate CRM activities. Social Ethnography is a consulting
service offered by Hottolink Consulting. Values and trends specific to a user
group are grasped based on data posted to social media by a particular user
group, and the causes and rationale for changes in purchasing behavior and
processes are derived. This enables business enterprises and advertising
agencies to develop products and services that target a particular user group
and to come up with effective shopping promotion. The Community Cluster Analysis
service is another consulting service. It automatically groups consumers with
strong connections with one another into communities based on data these
consumers post to social media, making it possible to identify the attitudes,
interests, concerns and preferences of each community. As a result, business
enterprises and advertising agencies are able to focus on a specific target
when seeking to understand the response to advertising on social media, and are
able to formulate measures to optimize advertising effectiveness based on those
results. Business Sectors to Shift Dramatically from FY12/14
Following the Socialgist Acquisition (2) Financial forecasts for
FY12/14 Looking at consolidated financial forecasts for FY12/14,
Hottolink has made a downward revision of its initial forecasts for both sales
and earnings (as of the third quarter earnings announcement). Net sales are
forecast at \1,019mn, an increase of 8.1% year on year. Operating income is
forecast at \147mn, a decrease of 7.0%, and ordinary income is forecast at
\134mn, a decrease of 8.2%. Net income for the year is forecast to decrease
15.9% to \58mn.As mentioned earlier, the
reason for the revised forecast is that sales in the SaaS Business and Solution
Business were lower than initially forecast. In regard to the Solution Business,
a national government project anticipated at the beginning of the fiscal year
is taking more time to implement than originally expected. For this reason, the
recognition of sales for this project will be pushed back to the next fiscal
year. This is another factor behind the revised forecast. Financial results for FY12/14
will be marked by higher sales and lower earnings. Looking at just the fourth
quarter, net sales are forecast at \284mn, up 2.9% year on year, and operating
income is forecast at \53mn, up 15.2%. On a quarterly basis, Hottolink is
anticipating record-high results. This outlook is based on the benefits of the
aforementioned launch of new services and expansion in consulting projects. Heading into FY12/15,
Hottolink is expected to restore double-digit growth. The Company should reap
the benefits of the new products it will launch from the end of 2014 to the
start of 2015.These products are designed to win over more medium-sized
corporate customers, which has hitherto been a challenge for the SaaS Business.
There are clear reasons for the low subscriber retention rate among
medium-sized companies. Hottolink will roll out new, upgraded versions of both
e-mining and kuchikomi@kakaricho. These new products will incorporate
improvements necessary to address each of the reasons for the low retention
rate (beta versions are already available). The use of social big data is
undoubtedly a crucial priority for companies seeking to attain growth.
Financial data released by U.S.-based Twitter shows that data sales in 2014
rose sharply by approximately 60% year on year. It is evident that the use of
social big data is catching on globally. In contrast, Hottolink is
currently experiencing soft growth because the use of social big data has not
caught on among medium-sized companies in Japan. In addition to launching new
services that address the needs of medium-sized companies, Hottolink plans to
provide services compatible with multiple devices, including smartphones and
tablet devices. The Company’s strategy for increasing the
number of subscriber companies is to develop an environment where services are
accessible anytime, anywhere. ○Acquisition of
U.S.-based Socialgist On November 9, Hottolink
announced that it will convert U.S.-based Socialgist, a social media data
provider, into a wholly owned subsidiary. The shares are planned to be acquired
on January 5, 2015 for an acquisition cost of US$22mn (\2,464mn). For this
reason, Socialgist will become a consolidated subsidiary of Hottolink from
FY12/15. Hottolink will finance the
acquisition cost of US$22 million (\2,596mn) from borrowings of \2,100mn from
financial institutions (repayment date: end of March, 2015) and the Company’s internal funds. Established in 2000 as a startup, Socialgist collects and
provides social media data from sources such as blogs, bulletin boards, Q&A
and review sites. It is known for its advanced data streaming technology.
Another strength of Socialgist is that it is the world’s only company to acquire a marketing license with full access
rights to Sina Weibo data. Sina Weibo has been dubbed the “Chinese Twitter.” It is China’s largest SNS with more than 600mn accounts, and 120mn posts a
day. Socialgist does business with customers that include the world’s major social big data monitoring firms and marketing
platforms, as well as CRM, business intelligence (BI) and other tool vendors,
along with financial institutions and governments. In June 2014, Hottolink
entered into a business alliance with Socialgist and acquired exclusive
marketing agent rights to China-based Sina Weibo data in the Asia-Pacific
region outside China.The ongoing realignment and
consolidation of data distributors in the global market for social media data
can be cited as one factor behind this acquisition. The social media data
sector has three major types of players: (1) the major SNS operators that own
data, such as Twitter and Sina Weibo; (2) the data distributors that purchase
this data and resell it to companies; and (3) the social media data users. Regarding
data distributors, U.S.-based Apple Inc. acquired the American company Topsy
Labs Inc., a provider of Twitter search and analysis services, for more than
US$200mn in December 2013. Additionally, in April 2014, U.S.-based Twitter,
Inc. acquired the American company Gnip, Inc., which holds marketing rights to
the full archive of Twitter data for all periods worldwide (held by only two
companies in the world). These industry realignments and consolidation actions can be
interpreted as a sign of the increasing importance of data distribution
companies. This, in turn, reflects the growing needs of the players who use
social media data. As many more types of social media data become available and
the amount of data increases significantly, these data users are seeking to
gather a diverse array of social media data comprehensively, steadily and
without omission.Faced with this upheaval in
the market landscape, Hottolink may have judged that the Socialgist acquisition
would be the most effective means of achieving further growth as a data
distributor. The acquisition offers Hottolink a number of benefits. These
include establishing a key position as an independent company among global data
distributors, acquiring outstanding talent and major customers on a global
basis, and gaining access to a more expansive range of opportunities for
M&As and other initiatives. Looking at the impact of the
Socialgist acquisition on Hottolink’s
products and services, the acquisition should open up new possibilities for the
Company. For example, it will be able to expand functionality through the Sina
Weibo data supply service, provide an overseas version of kuchikomi@kakaricho,
and launch China risk detection services based on Sina Weibo data. These
possibilities bolster the view that the acquisition has further enhanced
Hottolink’s growth potential. Socialgist’s most recent financial
results are shown in the table below. In FY12/14, Socialgist posted record-high
financial results for the nine months ended September 2014. Assuming an
exchange rate of \120 to US$1, net sales of around \1,100mn and operating
income of around \100mn are projected for FY12/14. With financial results
projected to continue expanding steadily in 2015 and beyond, Socialgist is
expected to contribute positively to Hottolink’s consolidated financial results from the first fiscal year
after the acquisition.Incidentally, Hottolink will begin applying International
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) to its consolidated financial results from
FY12/15 (Japanese GAAP will be applied from the 1Q to 3Q of FY12/15). As a
result, the amortization of goodwill will no longer be reflected in profit or
loss. This means that Socialgist’s financial results will be
added directly to those of Hottolink without any offsets. Amortization of
goodwill is projected at \57mn in Hottolink’s consolidated financial results for FY12/14. Because this
charge will no longer be reflected in FY12/15, it will be a factor that pushes
up earnings. That said, it should be noted that this impact on earnings is due
to a change in accounting methods. Hottolink will still face the risk of an
impairment loss if Socialgist is judged to be unable to generate earnings
commensurate with goodwill due to future deterioration in its financial results. 報告內容僅供參考，不得作為任何投資引用之唯一依據，且其投資風險及決定應由投資人自行判斷並自負損益。