TOKAIHoldings(JP-3167)TokyoStockExchangeFirstSectionTOKAIHolding’scumulativeoperatingprofitlargelyexceededitsoriginalforecastinQ2(II)
  2015-01-14 提供機構：FISCO 作者：FISCO 點閱次數：6   

◆New Three-year Medium-term Plan New medium-term plan aims at achieving net sales of JPY
209.5 billion (1) Summary of medium-term
plan, “Innovation Plan 2016 ‘Growing’” In June 2014, TOKAI announced
a medium-term plan, Innovation Plan 2016 “Growing”, ending in fiscal year 2017
(term ending in March 2017). The plan’s
basic policies include: 1) improved sales and profitability through building up
the number of customers; 2) continued improvement on financial structure; and
3) delivery of steady and sustained returns to shareholders. The Company has also announced specific management targets,
aiming to achieve net sales of JPY 209.5 billion as well as operating profit of
JPY 12.6 billion in the final year of the plan (see table). Operating profit is
expected to increase by JPY 5.2 billion y-o-y, and, of this increase, a JPY 2.7
billion increase in “external growth” such as expanding the customer base and reducing the customer
acquisition cost and a JPY 2.5 billion increase in “internal growth” such as enhancing
productivity through economies of scale and reducing the depreciation burden.Plans to focus on retaining customers and promoting
multiple transactions (2) Retaining customers and
promoting multiple transactions Hereafter, the Company intends
to focus on retaining customers and promoting multiple transactions. Retaining
customers will be possible by increasing the number of TLC members as noted
above. While its overall customers-to-TLC members ratio is still fairly low at
14%, as the Company not only largely increased the number of exchange locations
for TLC reward points in August as noted above, but also increased convenience
by extending the validity period of the points from one year to three years,
the number should continue to grow steadily. The Company also plans to follow a strategy to promote the
growth in the number of multiple services users along with the number of
members by developing “TOKAI Smart Plus” to be introduced in this period as a new measure to expand the
membership. “TOKAI Smart Plus” is a program that offers premium reward points, equivalent to
JPY 10,000, every time existing users join a new service for one year; and the
existing bonus points are scheduled to be more than doubled according to
members’ usage duration of multiple services from
the second year onward. The more the users use the services the Company offers,
the higher the return rates of the reward points. It therefore provides an
incentive for some users to use the services and an added sense of good value.The program will apply to all
its retail services including gas, Internet access, water and security
services. With the number of existing customers who use multiple services only
accounting for 7% of all customers, the Company has to improve the usage rate
for multiple services. Although the program will not affect the fees for each
service, it will enable subscribers to earn fee reduction by joining multiple
services. Growth in usage rate of multiple services is thus likely. While there will be a cost of
rewards, adopting it will lead to retention of customers and lower churn rates
and will also enable the sales people to recommend multiple services when
acquiring new customers, which may significantly reduce customer acquisition
cost. Consequently, there is large growth potential in profit resulted from
enhanced usage rate of multiple services. Since the effects of the new program
are not incorporated in the medium-term plan, this may lead to exceeding the
original forecast. Intends to enter electric power retail business upon
liberalization (3) Advancing initiatives with
a focus on electric power sales TOKAI has announced to launch
electric power retail services, led by the liberalization of electric power
retail sales in 2016. The Company is in negotiations with a number of major
electric power companies and looking to start providing services in Shizuoka
and the Kanto region simultaneously at the time of liberalization. The Company aims not only to engage in sales of power but also
to provide high-value added services by building a Home Energy Management
System (HEMS). For instance, it will enable to check the usage status of
electricity or gas on tablet devices and offer a variety of useful daily
information contents including regional leisure and offers from supermarkets
and stores to realize the provision of value added quality services. The Company
intends to enhance these contents in collaboration with major companies.Prior to the power sales, the
Company is scheduled to participate in the “Large-Scale HEMS Information Infrastructure Project”, led by the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry, and plans
to conduct a monitoring survey of approximately 1,000 households in Shizuoka
over a period of one year starting in April 2015. If the trend of all-electric home continues, the Company, whose
business includes LPG sales, will have a negative impact. For this reason, it
is likely that its entry into the electric power retail business will become an
essential part of its business to realize its “Total Life Concierge”
concept and to further increase profits.Water segment plans to achieve profitability for the
first time in FY3/17 (4) Overview of Mainstay
Businesses Operating profit forecast in the medium-term plan, based on the
following assumptions, is as seen in the graph below.○LPG LPG business, the Company’s core business, has the third largest customer base in Japan -
the largest in Shizuoka and 6.3% in the Kanto region. In the LPG market, a
yearly decline of 1.8- 2.0% in consumption for households is expected due to
decreasing population and consumers’
growing commitment to energy conservation. As competitions continue to be
intensified, further reorganization and consolidation of the industry are
expected. Operating profit for the
fiscal year ending March 2017 is expected to amount to JPY 4.4 billion, a JPY
0.5 billion increase compared to the result in the fiscal year ended March
2014. In detail, while a JPY 0.8 billion decrease in profit is expected due to
the decline in consumption for households, a JPY 0.9 billion increase in the
increase of the number of customers (+30 thousand) and a JPY 0.8 billion
increase due to the streamlining effects resulted from implementation of a
collaborative delivery system and consolidation of back-office operations in
the Kanto region and Shizuoka. The Company follows a
strategic sales policy to carry out sales activities aimed at increasing the
number of customers and additional subscriptions by leveraging information
shared with its other retail service businesses. ○Broadband The Company has a 27.4% share in Shizuoka and a 4.4% share in
the Kanto region as an Internet Service Provider (ISP). Market-wise, the wired
broadband market is expected to peak in the fiscal year ending March 2016 and
then become a mature market. Moreover, fiercer competition is expected due to
NTT’s launch of wholesale fiber access.Operating profit for the
fiscal year ending March 2017 is expected to amount to JPY 3.8 billion, a JPY
0.5 billion increase compared to the result in the fiscal year ended March
2014. The Company aims to achieve its plan by increasing the number of customer
to 80 thousand in the period of three years leveraging its customer acquisition
base it has with three major consumer electronics chains and by improving the
efficiency of the backyard operations of “@T COM”, its nationwide ISP service,
and “TNC”, its local ISP service specialized in Shizuoka, renewing the
ISP system. ○CATV As a CATV service provider,
the Company achieves the second highest net sales in the country and has also
established itself as a regional media company whose number of serviceable
households amounts to 1.07 million with a subscription rate accounting for 47%.
Keen competition in prices with major telecommunications companies is expected
to continue with respect to the market environment. In this environment, operating
profit for the fiscal year ending March 2017 is expected to amount to JPY 2.1
billion, a JPY 0.3 billion increase compared to the result in the fiscal year
ended March 2014. The Company will continue to acquire new customers by
substantially increasing 30 thousand customers of its CATV communications
service in collaboration with cell phone companies by offering smartphone
discounts as well as by promoting a proposal to introduce a “free basic fee + additional services” based on the bulk method for apartment complexes for its
broadcasting service. ○Water With the 6th largest customer base
in the country, the Company’s water business has the
largest customer base in Shizuoka, accounting for 63.8%, and a 4.2% share
nationwide. Due to high demand for safety and assurance of drinking water,
growth in water delivery market is expected to continue. Operating profit for the fiscal year ending March 2017 is
expected to amount to JPY 0.1 billion, a JPY 1.9 billion increase compared to
the result in the fiscal year ended March 2014, aiming to achieve profitability
for the first time. The Company intends to substantially increase 60 thousand
customers in the period of three years by expanding the product lineup to suit
various needs and by strengthening the promotion focused on sales of channels,
which will be conducted at large commercial facilities. It will also promote
sales of auto-delivery as opposed to one-time delivery, which is more
profitable. In addition, the effects of enhanced productivity are expected due
to increased number of customers; the number of bottles to be produced is expected
to increase by 2.9 times to 3,660 thousand in three years, and the productivity
is expected to rise by 35% in three years.◆Shareholder Return Policy Offers an attractive level of total return per unit of
shares The Company’s dividend policy is based on
paying out stable dividends, but, after its transition to a holding company
structure, actual dividend payout ratios for the last three periods were over
40% respectively. The ratio for the fiscal year ending March 2015 is expected
to account for over 30% as well. As for shareholder benefit, the Company awards
some of its water products [Urunon “Fuji-no-tennensui
(Mt. Fuji natural water)” or others], equivalent to JPY
1,800, a QUO card, equivalent to JPY 500, or reward points of “TLC Members” service, a comprehensive
membership service, equivalent to JPY 1,000, per unit of shares biannually at
the end of March and at the end of September to its shareholders. Based on the
current market price level, a total return is calculated to be approximately
9%, which is an attractive level. 報告內容僅供參考，不得作為任何投資引用之唯一依據，且其投資風險及決定應由投資人自行判斷並自負損益。