MedicalSystemNetwork(JP-4350)TokyoStockExchangeFirstSectionSteadilyimprovingprofitability,aimingfordouble-digitrevenue&earningsgrowthinFY3/15(II)
  2015-01-19 提供機構：FISCO 作者：FISCO 點閱次數：17   

Operating & recurring
profit expected to post their record highs since FY9/11 (2) FY3/15 Results Outlook The FY3/15 consolidated results outlook is unchanged from the
Company’s initial plan with consolidated sales up
14.9% y-o-y to ¥76,013mn, operating profit up 15.0% y-o-y
to ¥2,404mn, recurring profit up 9.9% y-o-y
to ¥2,219mn and net profit up 5.6% y-o-y to ¥706mn. It is expected that sales will set a new record high for
a 3rd consecutive period (FY3/12 3 years earlier being an irregular 6-month set
of accounts), with operating and recurring profit both setting their record
highs since FY9/11. The reason that the increase in net profit is slightly low
is that extraordinary losses are expected in line with the closing of
loss-making stores.The outlook by operating segment is as set out below.○ Pharmaceutical Network
Business The pharmaceutical network
business is expected to be flat year-on-year, with sales up 0.2% y-o-y to ¥2,850mn, and operating profit up 1.7% y-o-y to ¥1,500mn. The budget completion rate to Q2 is 47% for sales and
49% for operating profit. This supposes a rise of 6.7% in pharmaceutical
turnover volumes to ¥120bn, and a year-on-year rise
in member numbers by period end of 237 to 1,400. Also, given that the
withdrawal of one large counterparty (230 stores) is included in this 1,400, it
is actually a year-on-year rise of 7 to 1,170. With a year-on-year increase
totaling 117 at the end of September, we feel the plan is readily achievable
with a rate of increase in line with that in H1. The Company aims to roll-out
its network business to every prefecture, and is concentrating on developing
operations in the blank spots which are Yamanashi Prefecture, Ibaraki
Prefecture, Toyama Prefecture, Kochi Prefecture and Tokushima Prefecture. Also,
as it is strengthening general member store acquisitions, its marketing
approach also will not be based around its traditional referral method, but
will shift from now on to an approach that promotes more proactive customer
acquisition. Accordingly, the Company’s
policy is to promote an increase in sales staff, and in addition to already
increasing by one staff member in September to an eight-man structure, it plans
to add one member to its Kansai office this H2, and a further 1-2 staff in
FY3/16. Also, it will continue to utilize customer referrals from
collaborations with M&A intermediaries. This is because domestically the
number of pharmacies runs to an enormous 57,000, and it is impossible
resource-wise for the Company to cultivate all of them. By utilizing M&A
intermediaries that have many points of contact with pharmacy managers, the
Company wants to accelerate general member acquisitions. ○ Dispensing Pharmacy
Business Dispensing pharmacy business sales are expected to rise 14.7%
y-o-y to ¥72,248mn, and operating profit to rise
16.2% y-o-y to ¥2,138mn. The budget completion rate to Q2
was 47% for sales and 38% for operating profit. The budget completion rate for
profit appears to be low, however, as noted above, in the drug price revision
system, given that there is a trend for the impact to be felt in the first half
of the year (April-September), we feel there is the potential to recover in the
second half of the year. Actually, on a profit basis in the last revision round
(FY3/13) the budget completion rate was in the order of 33%. Further, even
examining operating profit by quarter, there is an underlying recovery with a
shift to a year-on-year gain in Q2, and considering that due to seasonal
factors there is also an increase in sales in the second half of the year, we
feel that there is ample potential to achieve the plan.As a measure for promoting
improvement in existing store profitability, the Company increased the ratio of
stores eligible for generic dispensing systems incentives at the end of
September from 65.6% in the same period the previous year to 71.4%, and also
increased the ratio of stores eligible for basic dispensing incentives from
90.9% to 92.3%. In particular, in respect of Basic Dispensing Fee Incentive 2 (refer note), due to medical payment
system revisions this time, the points were raised significantly in order to
promote home care. Home care operations are an important measure in the
development of holistic regional care systems, and the Company’s approach is to promote them even more proactively than they
have done to date. Further, this period the
Company’s policy is to prioritize achieving
profits rather than sales, and will shift to curbing new store openings
somewhat and proceed with the closing of up to 10 loss making stores. In
respect of new store openings, while it is almost certain that there will be
four new stores in the second half, there is the possibility that there will
only be 10 for the full-year, down from the 14 in the initial Company plan. On
the other hand, with the philosophy of proactively attracting clinics in order
to revitalize existing stores, the Company plans for the full-year to attract
11 clinics in the vicinity of existing pharmacies (with 7 already completed by
Q2). The Company is continuing
operational improvement. In particular, it plans for the dispensing
headquarters’ system, that has commenced trial
operations since September, to be fully operational from December. This system
not only automatically collates operational data including sales, inventories
as well as receipts and disbursements, but also carries out automatic sorting
for accounting systems, and is expected to have the effect of reducing clerical
work. The data entry for which was previously undertaken at both the store and
headquarters, but with this system the data entry will be done from the store
side only. Also, it will enable faster operational analysis and business
administration to be achieved, and is expected to contribute indirectly to
improving store profitability. Moreover, in respect of
pharmacists, at the end of September 2014 there was a 1,100 strong structure (a
year-on-year increase of 88 staff members), including temp staff, and in the
future also the plan is to continue to increase staff. The number of new
graduate hires is slated to expand from 47 in FY3/14 to 100 in FY3/15, with the
goal of expanding store numbers further in FY3/16 though increasing pharmacist
numbers. ○ Rental & Medical
Facility-related Business Sales in the rental and
medical facilities-related business are expected to be up 8.9% y-o-y to ¥1,435mn, and operating profit to return to a profit of ¥9mn (from a loss of ¥39mn
in the last period). We expect the EHSS property Wisteria Kiyota to make a
full-year contribution, with the number of occupants 57 as of October, and
achieving the breakeven point of 60 units likely by the end of the period. As a
result, it is expected that a marginal loss will remain, even for the
full-year. Additionally, three new EHSS
sites are being planned: Toyonaka City Osaka, Otaru City and Sapporo Hokkaido.
Of these, apart from the Osaka site (85 units) which is expected to be
completed in December 2015, and the Otaru site which is expected to be
completed in November that year, taking into consideration that the scale of
the Sapporo site is slightly large (115 units) and the impact of hikes in
construction costs, it is the stage where designs are being worked out. The total investment amount for the Osaka and Otaru properties
is approximately ¥4,800mn which the Company
plans to meet through borrowings, however, in respect of EHSS sites, the
Company’s policy is via securitization schemes to
sell them REITs and other parties, and shift them off-balance sheet to the
extent possible.○ Catering Business
& Other Business Given that from FY3/15 the catering business will make a
full-year contribution, sales are expected to grow 210.0% y-o-y to ¥1,881mn. Conversely, it is expected that there will be a ¥33mn operating loss. Also, due to sluggish project enquiries,
other business sales are expected to decline 19.1% y-o-y to ¥329mn and operating profit to decline 52.6% y-o-y to ¥4mn.◆Growth Strategies Sales of ¥100bn under the new 3-Year Management Plan, aiming for ¥300bn in 10 years The Company has set a
long-term target of achieving ¥300bn in sales in 10 years
time. It is promoting expansion in growth in both its pharmaceutical network
business and dispensing pharmacy business, which are currently its two core
businesses. Further, it is eyeing sales in the final year of the new 3-Year
Management Plan, that starts from FY3/16, above the ¥100bn mark. In its pharmaceutical network business, a steady trend is
progressing for consolidation by large players within the domestic 57,000
pharmacies, with it expected that operating conditions for small- and
medium-sized pharmacies to become increasingly harsher going forward. Against
this background, it is expected that demand for the Company’s network service, as one that leads to operational support for
small- and medium-sized pharmacies, will expand going forward. As noted above,
in Q2 the rate of increase in member numbers was accelerating, and given the
fact alone that there is also the potential for these indications too start to
appear, attention will focus on future trends.On the other hand, in dispensing pharmacy business the strategy
is to steadily expand stores while promoting M&A centered around the major
metropolitan areas. How to efficiently tackle home care operations that are
expected to expand in the future is seen as holding the key to earnings.
However, apart from employing M&A to bring into the Group Medical Brain
that is proactively engaging in home care operations, the Company also
possesses within the Group subsidiaries undertaking training, and by
strengthening HR development we feel will promote strengthening of home care
operations.Also, in its rental and medical facility-related business, the
Company is proactively tackling EHSS (elderly housing with supportive
services). It is a new proposition that combines medical treatment and nursing
care in a “seniors housing + medical mall +
dispensing pharmacy” + “hospital” format with it expected that
demand will expand further in the future as domestically we face a super aging
society. It is expected that by engaging in this business, it wants, in respect
of EHSS, to continue to gauge conditions, and undertake new sites at a pace of
1-2 buildings per annum, the result will be synergistic benefits with the
dispensing pharmacy and other businesses.◆Financial Position Continuing a business
expansion strategy that takes advantage of financial leverage under the low
interest rate regime The Company’s end-September 2014 financial position is as set out in the
chart below. Total assets declined ¥254mn
y-o-y to ¥42,859mn, with an examination of the
major factors for the fluctuation revealing a decline in cash and deposits of ¥1,057mn, while land increased ¥477mn. At the same time, liabilities
declined ¥416mn year-on-year to ¥37,344mn. Current liabilities declined while fixed liabilities
grew, however, this was mainly due to a shift in borrowing at TMS （Total
Medical Service） from short-term to long-term, with other changes including
declines in accounts payable and accrued taxes payable in the order of ¥308mn and ¥221mn respectively offering no
significant variation. Additionally, net assets rose ¥162mn y-o-y to ¥5,514mn mainly as a result of
increases in retained earnings. Within management indicators reflecting stability, while the
shareholders’ equity ratio improved slightly to 12.3%,
the Company’s ratio of interest bearing liabilities
remains at a high level, with no change in management’s policy of promoting a strategy of business expansion that
takes advantage of financial leverage under current low interest rates.◆Shareholder Returns Sharp share price declines
post-results announcement, improvements in profitability to be re-evaluated The Company’s shareholder return policy is based on rewarding shareholders
by way of dividends. Its basic policy is to pay stable dividends that reflect
the Company’s results, after securing sufficient
internal reserves to strengthen its financial position, expand operations and
effect human resource development. The Company plans a payout ratio in the
order of 27% for FY3/15, with a dividend of ¥8 (the interim and final dividends being ¥4 each), unchanged from the previous year. Following its FY3/14 results
announcement, the Company’s share price declined
sharply, and is trending in ¥300s level. The reasons for
the decline in the share price are thought to be the emergence of negative
news, including the results of purchase pricing negotiations with
pharmaceutical wholesalers, the fact that FY3/14 results were below the Company’s plan. In addition, a temporary leveling off in revenue in
respect of the FY3/15 results outlook also due to the withdrawal by one large
counterparty in the pharmaceutical network business, and the prospect of lower
profits in the dispensing pharmacy business in line with drug price revisions
affected negatively. However, as noted above, in its network business the impact from
the withdrawal of one large trading counterparty was negligible, and given that
the increase in the number of new member pharmacies is accelerating, and that
entering into Q2 improvement in profitability in its dispensing pharmacy
business has been confirmed, it is expected that a trend will emerge to
re-appraise the Company’s future growth strategies. 報告內容僅供參考，不得作為任何投資引用之唯一依據，且其投資風險及決定應由投資人自行判斷並自負損益。