V-cube,Inc.(JP-3681)TSEMothersAimingtoBecometheNo.1VisualCommunicationCompanyinAsia(II)
  2015-03-31 提供機構：FISCO 作者：FISCO 點閱次數：29   

◆Medium- to Long-Term Strategy Room to develop in potential markets, strengthening of
partner strategy and industry-specific services The company has a vision of
becoming “The No. 1 Visual Communication Platform
in Asia.” It has mainly been promoting the
following three business strategies designed for medium- to long-term growth. (1) Expand Existing Market
Share and Explore Potential The company still has untapped
potential markets to explore in Japan. We believe that by opening new markets
while increasing its share it can grow its sales in Japan further. According to Ministry of
Internal Affairs and Communications statistics, there are approximately
4,213,000 companies in Japan (12,000 large companies, 536,000 mid-sized
companies, and 3,665,000 small companies). The top 550,000 or so of these
companies are targets for the V-cube’s
business. Currently, only about 10,000 of these 550,000 companies are thought
to have introduced web conferencing, and the number of these that have
introduced the technology across the board is even fewer. The web conferencing
market therefore appears to have plenty of room left for further growth by
accelerating full company-wide introduction and increasing the number of user
companies. Furthermore, many are using TV
conferencing (high end) and PC-based video-chat, Skype, or other platforms
(low-end) as communication tools, however they each have the following
weaknesses. TV conferencing ・Extremely expensive
(especially when the number of locations is increased) ・Can only be used in a
predetermined location ・Paucity of functions
outside of video, such as functions for sharing of files and other materials ・Hardware faults and deterioration are a prominent issueFree video chat, etc. ・Security is uncertain ・Communications lack
stability ・No functions for
business use ・Support not available Using the company’s web conference service enables companies to cover all of these
weaknesses, so it seems to have the potential to capture market share from TV
conferencing and free video chat and the like. The company is expanding its
market in Japan through the following specific strategies, and intends to
increase its market share within that market. ●Industry
reorganization-type M&A and OEM The company aims to expand its
market share through industry reorganization such as forming capital alliances
with competitors, undertaking OEM, and other strategies. With regard to OEM in
particular, many of the company’s competitors are companies
affiliated with major electronics manufacturers as noted above, and while these
companies have brand power, they often lack a sufficient product line up. There
are strong possibilities for mutual benefits if the company provides OEM
products (services) to such companies. Meanwhile, in the case of companies that
have distinctive products or technologies, such as PVC, the company intends to
actively investigate options for acquisition. ●Strengthen partner
strategy Up until now the company has
grown its sales primarily through a direct sales strategy. Looking ahead,
however, it aims to increase its sales in Japan a step further by strengthening
its links with partner companies to increase its market share. In particular,
the company’s policy is to focus its efforts on
invigorating its sales agency network in addition to partnerships with
telecommunications carriers and links with SaaS service companies. The company’s sale format is based on monthly fees, and it is expected to
induce many companies to participate in sales as agencies by returning part of
these revenues to them as an incentive. Currently, over 200 large,
mid-sized, and small companies, including telecommunication carriers and
systems integration companies, are engaged as the company’s sales partners. However, with many of these partners, the
internal sales evaluation is based on the single month sales method (evaluation
based on the sales over the period of a month). This appears to be a factor
making it difficult to expand sales of cloud-based products such as those of
the company (monthly sales are small amounts, but continue over a long term).
The company therefore plans to strengthen the incentive to sell its products, while
aggressively appealing the benefits to the sales partners in the case where
they sell a cloud-based product. ●Solution provision-type
services To differentiate itself from
others in the industry, the company will expand its industry-specific solutions
in addition to ordinary web conferencing. In this way, it will accelerate its
evolution from a simple web conferencing company to a provider of visual
communication solutions. The following ongoing projects are specific examples
of this change. ▲Solutions for financial
institutions Specialized teams are developing sales of usage models for
financial institutions such as banks, securities companies, insurance
companies, and lease companies, including conferences between offices,
training, seminars for customers, remote visits to customers, BCP, and more.▲Solutions for
healthcare The company established
M-cube, Inc. as a strategic subsidiary with M3, Inc. <2413> (V-cube
equity stake 49.0%) in March 2014. Among other services, this subsidiary
carries out the web lectures that are currently offered by M3. Moreover, using
these as a starting point, the company plans to accept commissions for services
from clients other than M3, and to establish the de-facto standard for web
lectures in the medical and healthcare field, centered on M-cube. In April 2015 the company will
begin full-scale provision of pkgQ (Package Q), a web lecture service for
pharmaceutical companies that has been newly developed by M-cube. In the
pharmaceutical industry, over 100,000 lectures are held each year to
communicate with doctors and other medical professionals. However, many
representatives at pharmaceutical corporations say that they want to have
enhanced communication with doctors throughout Japan, while doctors say that
they want to use their time efficiently to gather insights and information
relating to pharmaceuticals and new treatment case studies. pkgQ not only
provides live distribution of web lectures, but also links with Japan’s largest healthcare portal website, m3.com, which is operated
by M3. This link enables users to easily gather together visitors from all over
Japan, a task that was previously difficult, and enables them to grasp the
individual needs of doctors attending the lectures in order to assist the
smooth provision of pharmaceutical product information and support activities. ▲Solutions for the
education market Another major potential market
for the company is the education market, which is to say, the market serving
various kinds of schools. There is already a national policy in place with a
four year plan to prepare an environment for incorporation of IT in education
(FY2014-2017), with a total planned budget of \671.2 billion. One of the
elements in this environment to be prepared is “the cost of providing for a 400,000-unit shortfall in electronic
smart boards and the renewal of 10,000 existing units.” As mentioned above, the recently acquired PVC is a major
supplier of electronic smart boards and a top manufacturer with a record of
supplying 20,000 units to schools in Japan. This national policy is therefore a
positive tailwind for PVC, and can be expected to contribute significantly to
the company’s financial results. ▲Robotics-related
business centered on devices such as drones The company invested in
Rapyuta Robotics Co., Ltd., a developer of technologies related to commercial
use of drones (miniature unmanned aircraft), and started up a new
robotics-related business. Drones can be controlled remotely from a cloud
system to visit a location in place of a person and transmit images and other
information in real time. Now the company is combining V-cube’s visual communication services and Ryaputa’s technologies to enable images captured by a drone to be
recognized in real time on V-CUBE services. This will lead to the joint
development of services for use in various scenarios, such as infrastructure
inspections of bridges and tunnels where aging has presented challenges,
maintenance at plants with tall structures or chimneys, assessment of damage in
disaster zones, and security measures for large-scale facilities like power stations.
In FY12/15, the company will take part in verification tests using drones with
the goal of achieving profitable services from FY12/16. ●Key products for the
company’s growth strategies To expand its business, the company needs to “increase the number of customers” and “increase the sales amount per
customer.” To achieve this, the company has
prepared the following line up of strategic key products. The company will use
them from FY12/15 to expand its business further.▲V-CUBE One As explained above, the
company has prepared products that involve provision of various services. Since
September 2014 it has provided V-CUBE One, a fee system based on a new concept
of using multiple services (web conferencing, webinars, online sales, etc,)
bundled in a single package. There had already been strong demand from users
who wished to use multiple services, but the previous model required the customers
to subscribe separately for each service. This made the price (monthly
subscription fee) for using multiple services somewhat high, causing many users
to hesitate. The introduction of V-CUBE One meant that users who subscribe to
the product can now use multiple services for a lower price than before.
Meanwhile, the company can expect to benefit from a higher average price per
subscription port (monthly subscription amount). ▲V-CUBE Gate V-CUBE Gate was released in
November 2014. This is a free text-chat service especially for corporations,
which can be set up to enable anyone within a subscribing company to use the
service for free. The goal of introducing this
service is to get many people using it so that they will also learn about the
company’s other services. V-CUBE Gate is linked
with the company’s web conference services, so
users can go into a web conference and use the web conference service with
single click. The product has therefore been called “V-CUBE Gate” because it acts as a conduit
to its main service. Since it is a free service, it
does not generate profit initially. However, making the service free is
intended to encourage its use on more occasions and contribute to profit
through the seamless link to the V-CUBE service. At any rate, it is important
to increase the number of users of the service at first, and the initial target
is set at 1 million users. The company plans to begin full-scale promotion of
the product from FY12/15, and to see the effects emerge from the second half of
that fiscal year. ▲New version of V-CUBE
Meeting, “V5” The technology underpinning
V-CUBE Meeting has been upgraded. With an improved environment and more
comfortable user experience, the company intends to increase the number of
subscribers and reduce the number of subscription cancellations. Using some of most advanced
component technologies in the world The company has used some of
the most advanced component technologies in the world to dramatically enhance
connectivity, image quality, and audio quality. These improvements have enabled
the company to significantly reduce the time needed to prepare the
customer-side environment before the subscription. This will support improved
subscription rates and shorten lead times for signing up new subscribers. Moreover,
since the new version provides solutions for connectivity, image quality, and
audio quality, which account for nearly half of the factors driving
cancellations, it will greatly reduce churn rates. Mobile-first design Designs predicated on use with
a mobile device have expanded usage scenarios. Moreover, the company is also
aiming to drive sales expansion in overseas markets where use with mobile
devices is common. Strengthen global
infrastructure By establishing infrastructure (dedicated lines) overseas, the
company has opened the way for clients to use the services in emerging
countries, including China. The company has also improved the user experience
in regions where it had been poor, such as South America and Europe, with the
goal of expanding its customer base.Overseas expansion by entering new regions and
strengthening of sales systems in existing markets (2) Step up overseas expansion
centered on Asia ●Expansion into new
countries To expand overseas sales, it
is important not only to expand sales in its existing markets, but also to
follow a strategy of expanding into new countries. In this respect, the company
plans to expand its locations while also aggressively developing partnerships
with other companies. The company has already started sales in South Korea, and
is preparing to formalize its operations in Taiwan and Vietnam. The company
also plans to close on rapidly expanding sales negotiations in Malaysia, and to
further expand prospects in Indonesia. ●Investing sales
resources In existing markets, the
company plans to aggressively invest sales resources. Sales costs in existing
overseas markets are much lower than in Japan, but IT product prices (including
the company’s prices) are almost the same. In other
words, overseas companies offer high cost effectiveness. The company plans to
increase earnings by investing sales resources on a large scale, particularly
in Malaysia and China, where marketability has been confirmed through direct
sales. ●Lateral development of
successful case examples The company will expand sales
through lateral development of successful case examples in overseas markets.
Specifically, it will develop the successful case example of services for
Shanghai General Motors Company Ltd. for other automobile companies, sell the
example of its crisis management solution for government organizations in
Thailand and China to the governments of other countries, and expand sales of
the distant learning system delivered to universities in emerging countries to
other universities. Regrettably, the political instability surrounding the Thai
government put a complete stop to projects there in FY12/14; however, the
project itself has not ceased to exist. By continuing sales activities, the
company appears confident that it will be able to revive the project to some
extent in FY12/15. Accelerate provision of services as a platform to drive
rapid business expansion (3) Development of a
B-to-B-to-C Platform Model The company is developing two
models as follows. (a) Joint operations in
various fields, such as education and healthcare The company will establish
ties with industry leaders in content and service provision, such as cram
schools and correspondence education operators, training service providers, and
nursing care service operators, and establish a revenue model in which
customers of these businesses pay for a set product including provision of the
contents and services. For example the company has established ties with
companies such as Recruit Holdings Co., Ltd. <6098>, Gakken Holdings Co.,
Ltd. <9470>, YARUKI Switch Group Holdings Co., Ltd., and Escrow Agent
Japan, Inc. <6093>. (b) Incorporate the long-tail
market using V-CUBE Market The company will not only supply tools such as web conference
services, but also offer the V-CUBE Market fee-based live distribution service
platform using web conferences and web seminars, which it has developed.
Anybody will be able to use the V-CUBE Market provided by the company to
distribute lectures, seminars, and other material with ease.The company is currently
pursuing the above medium- to long-term strategies with the goal of becoming
the “No.1 Visual Communications Platform in
Asia.” There is still ample room for further development of markets in
Japan and overseas for the company’s
web conferencing service. Many investors will be watching its progress going
forward. 報告內容僅供參考，不得作為任何投資引用之唯一依據，且其投資風險及決定應由投資人自行判斷並自負損益。