KENKOMayonnaiseCo.,Ltd.(JP-2915)TokyoStockExchangeFirstSectionMaintainingSales&EarningsGrowththroughSaladsandDelicatessenProductsthatMeetLifestyleChanges(I)
  2015-02-24 提供機構：FISCO 作者：FISCO 點閱次數：6   

KENKO Mayonnaise Co., Ltd.
<2915> (hereafter “KENKO Mayo” or “the Company”) is engaged in the production and sale of salads and
delicatessen products, mayonnaise and dressings, as well as processed foods
made from eggs, and other products. It has a strong position in the market for
commercial-use and has the leading market share in the “long-life salad” category at 40% and in egg
salad for sandwiches and bread meal at 56%. In the mayonnaise and dressings
market, it is second behind Kewpie <2809> with a 14.9% share. Consolidated results for H1
FY3/15 showed that despite continuing underlying year-on-year (y-o-y) sales
growth of 3.9%, with expansion in demand for egg products, delicatessen and
other products, recurring profit declined 18.7% y-o-y due to the impact of
surges in the market price for eggs and one-off cost increases from the
establishment of its new factory. The outlook for FY3/15
full-year results anticipate sales of \60,000 million, up 4.7% y-o-y, and a
swing back to profitability in recurring profit after a period of profit
decline to \2,700 million, up 19.5% y-o-y. In addition to the impact of sales
growth and price revisions in mayonnaise, egg products and other products that
have been implemented in stages from H2 FY3/14, factors such as reductions in
purchasing costs of cooking oil were behind growth in profits. In respect of overseas
business, the Company is developing operations through equity method affiliates
in China and Indonesia, and expects them to become profitable in FY3/16. Also,
in its domestic BtoC business of Salad Cafe, requests for new store openings,
centering on metropolitan areas are increasing, with store numbers planned to
be increased at a pace of several stores per year, pursuant to its strategy of
raising brand value. In addition, the Company is also tackling how to
strengthen functional food development and its cut vegetables business, aiming
for even further growth. Amidst changes in lifestyle
such as the advancement of ageing society, increases in single-person
households, and the social advancement of women, the Company is expected to continue
stable growth going forward also, by expanding products that meet customer
needs. Moreover, apart from aiming for stable dividend growth, targeting a
consolidated payout ratio of 20% or above for shareholder returns, the Company
also makes presents of its products as a form of shareholder benefit.◆Company Overview Mainstay commercial seasoning & processed food
business represent 80% of sales (1) Scope of Business KENKO Mayo is a manufacturer
of foodstuffs, mainly engaged in the production and sale of salads and
delicatessen items, mayonnaise and dressings, as well as egg products and other
products for commercial use, undertaking operations such as the production and
sale of chilled grocery type delicatessen products, and retail store operations
through subsidiaries. Its operations may be divided
into three business segments: seasoning and processed food business (salads,
delicatessen products, mayonnaise and dressings, egg products etc.),
side-dish-related business (chilled groceries such as delicatessen and salad
products), and other business (retail store and overseas business), comprising
H1 FY3/15 sales contributions of 83.0% from seasoning and processed food
business, 15.1% from side-dish-related business and 1.9% from other business. A
breakdown of seasoning and processed food business shows that salads and
delicatessen products represent 44.5%, mayonnaise and dressings 27.8%, egg
products 26.0%, and 1.7% for other, with gradual trend in recent years for an
increase in the egg products component. The background to this is that demand
(for these products) is expanding for lunchboxes, bread and sandwiches due to
expansion in the home meal replacement (hereafter “HMR”) market, centered on
convenience stores (CVS).Competing for top position in commercial mayonnaise &
dressings, with the top share in long-life salad (2) Sales & Market Share
by Business Category Examining the Company’s sales ratio by business category, we see that the restaurant
industry has the largest share with 27.1%, followed by mass retailers
(supermarket chains), CVS, bread makers (bakeries), food dispensing and others
(consumer co-ops, commercial food wholesalers etc.), with a distinctive feature
of the Company’s business being that it has mainly
developed business aimed at the restaurant and HMR markets. In recent years
there has been a trend for decline in the restaurant industry ratio, but on the
other hand the ratio for CVS has been rising, which may also be discerned from
the graph. The background to this is that in the CVS market, accompanying an
increase in store numbers demand is expanding for bread, delicatessen, lunchbox
and other products.Looking at market share within
its industries, in recent years mayonnaise and dressings have performed stably
at around 15%, maintaining its number two position in the industry. Given that
it is virtually specialized on commercial usage, while its familiarity is
limited with general consumers, in commercial usage it is the sparring partner
for the leading manufacturer with Kewpie, with a supply track record to most of
the major restaurants and hotel chains. Meanwhile, the Company, the
pioneer of “long-life salad,” has established the industry-leading market share of over 40%
for long-life salad.Collective strength from management integration of
production, development & sales (3) Company’s Strengths The Company’s strength, in addition to having built a nationwide production
network for the stable supply of high-quality products, lies in the collective
strength from combined management integration of production, development and
sales, including product development capabilities that meet customer needs and
meticulous sales response capabilities.High quality means not only
good taste; safety and security are also important elements. Further, for the
company, which is focused on sales for commercial-use, the question of how much
added value can it offer customers holds an important key to its business
growth. The company has taken steps to offer added value through its meticulous
response to customers involving the segmentation of fields by business
classification and the integration of its sales, product development, and menu
development teams. The number of product items that it develops annually
exceeds 1,800, meaning it develops five new items every day. As the graph
shows, since 2011, it has continued to grow at a rate exceeding the restaurant
and HMR markets thanks to the fruits of these efforts.Development of flexible production system that meets
customer needs (4) Production Systems &
Group Subsidiaries Currently, the Company’s nationwide production system comprises seven factories
operated by the parent company and nine factories operated by seven
consolidated subsidiaries. Subsidiaries’ production bases are closely linked to their operating areas
because they are the production bases for chilled groceries type delicatessen
products for to supermarkets, CVS, and other outlets. Above all, just-in-time
(JIT) response capability is essential for CVS that operate 24/7. Some of the
factories therefore operate 365 days-a-year, with flexible production systems
that can quickly respond to changes in order volume. Further, as of the end of
December 2014 there were 16 Salad Cafe stores, mainly located in department stores
and general merchandizing stores. In respect of overseas business, the Company
has developed operations in China and Indonesia, with both of them being equity
method affiliates. The Company’s Chinese operations have been
developed by way of a joint venture (50% capital contribution) with a Taiwanese
foodstuffs manufacturer. Previously there were two production facilities in
Dongguan and Hangzhou; however, in August 2014 they were consolidated in the
Hangzhou factory. This factory mainly produces mayonnaise and dressings (with
an annual production capacity of 25,000 tons), which are sold to local
companies and Japanese restaurant companies. On the other hand, in
Indonesia the Company established a joint venture (49% capital contribution)
with a local foodstuffs manufacturer in 2012, and from the autumn of 2013
commenced production of mayonnaise and dressings (with an annual production
capacity of 4,000 tons). This factory has Halal certification, and apart from
bulk and commercial selling locally, also engages in the sale of liquid egg.
From November 2014 it commenced exports to Japan of mayonnaise with Halal
certification. Because its companies in China
and Indonesia are equity-method affiliates, their sales are not reflected in
the company’s consolidated sales, but are recorded in
non-operating income and expenses as equity in earnings of affiliates. They are
included under Other Businesses of the consolidated segmentation. 報告內容僅供參考，不得作為任何投資引用之唯一依據，且其投資風險及決定應由投資人自行判斷並自負損益。