KENKOMayonnaiseCo.,Ltd.(JP-2915)TokyoStockExchangeFirstSectionDominantincommercial-use,Industryleaderinlong-lifesalads,eggsaladsetc.(I)
  2015-07-27 提供機構：FISCO 作者：FISCO 點閱次數：4   

KENKO Mayonnaise Co., Ltd.
<2915> (hereafter “KENKO Mayo” or “the Company”) is engaged in the production and sale of salads and
delicatessen products, mayonnaise and dressings, as well as processed egg and
other products. It has a strong position in the commercial-use market, and has
the leading market share in the “long-life salads” category at 37.4%. In the mayonnaise and dressings market, it
is second behind Kewpie <2809> with a 14.7% share. The FY3/15 consolidated
results showed steady expansion in processed egg, salad and
delicatessen-related products for convenience stores (CVS) and bakeries, with
sales up 5.3% y-o-y to ¥60,327mn, marking four
consecutive periods of increased sales, and setting a new record high. Also,
recurring profit, enjoying the impact of factors such as higher sales, lower
raw material costs and revisions in selling prices, rose 22.9% y-o-y to ¥2,776mn, a shift back to earnings growth for the first time in
two periods. The outlook for the FY3/16
consolidated results is for continued revenue and earnings growth, with sales
up 4.8% y-o-y to ¥63,200mn and recurring profit
up 8.0% y-o-y to ¥3,000mn, setting a new record
high for recurring profit for the first time in six periods. The quality of the
processed egg products at the Shizuoka Fujisan Factory, which was fully
operational from last period, has been highly rated. New customer acquisition
is proceeding steadily, and in salads and delicatessen-related items also
growth is expected, with expansion in HMR demand providing a tailwind. While
rises in raw material costs and increases in fixed costs are anticipated,
profit margins are also expected to rise due to the impact of higher revenues
and earnings, enhanced productivity at the Shizuoka Fujisan Factory and
improvements in the product mix. At the same time as announcing
results, the Company announced its new Mid-term Management Plan “KENKO Five Code 2015-2017”. Its three strategies are: (1) establishing its position as the
Leading Company in Salads, (2) to further evolve “Salad Cuisine,” and (3) to further strengthen
the management platform to proactively promote expansion into global markets.
The Company aims to achieve consolidated sales of ¥75,000mn and a recurring profit margin of 5% in the Plan’s final year, FY3/18. Further, while being conscious
of (its commitment to) a 20% payout ratio in terms of shareholder returns, the
Company aims to raise the payout ratio while continuing a stable distribution
of profits, and in FY3/16 also plans a ¥2 increase in dividends to ¥25 (a payout ratio of 20.1%). Additionally, every year the
Company presents its own products to shareholders as at the end of March, as
(another) shareholder reward.◆Company Overview Focus on commercial-use mayonnaise and dressings produces
many actual results for orders Scope of Business KENKO Mayo is a manufacturer
of foodstuffs, mainly engaged in the production and sale of salads and
delicatessen items, mayonnaise and dressings, as well as processed egg products
and other products for commercial use, undertaking operations such as the
production and sale of chilled grocery delicatessen products, and retail store
operations through subsidiaries. Looking at the (consolidated)
composition of sales by product segment in FY3/15, salads continue to have the
highest share overall at 45.2%, with mayonnaise and dressings at 27.8% and
processed egg products 25.2%. Examining the trends in the last few years we see
that the trend has been for the weighting of mayonnaise and dressings to
decline and that of processed egg products to rise. This is due to expansion in
the HMR market concentrated around CVSs, against a backdrop of demand expanding
for products including lunchboxes, bread snacks and sandwiches.Further, looking at the
(consolidated) sales composition by industry segment (client industry type), we
see that three industry segments represent almost 70% of the overall, with the
restaurant industry being 26.7%, big box retailers 23.2% and CVS 18.9%. Looking
at the trends for the past few years we see that the weighting for the
restaurant industry has been in a slight downtrend, while big box retailers and
CVS are in an uptrend. The HMR market having expanded is thought to be the
cause, against a background where, amongst other things, there are changes in
consumer lifestyles and greater participation by women in society. Looking at market share within
industries, in recent years mayonnaise and dressings have performed stably at
around 15%, maintaining its number two position in the industry. Given that it
is virtually specialized in commercial-use, while its familiarity is limited
with general consumers, in commercial-use the Company plays sparring partner to
the leading manufacturer Kewpie, with a supply track record to most of the
major restaurants and hotel chains. Meanwhile, the Company, the
pioneer of “long-life salads,” has established an industry-leading market share of over 37%
for long-life salads.Company Strengths The Company’s strength lies in management integration of production,
development and sales, including, in addition to having established nationwide
manufacturing structures that deliver stable, high quality products, having a
product development capability that meets customer needs and a meticulous sales
response capacity. High quality means not only
good taste; safety and security are also important elements. Further, for the
Company, which is focused on sales for commercial-use, the question of how it
can offer added value to customers holds an important key to expanding business
growth. The Company has taken steps to offer added value through its meticulous
response to customers, involving the segmentation of industry types and the
integration of its product marketing and development and menu development
teams. The number of product items that it develops annually exceeds 1,800,
meaning it develops five new items every day. One of the Company’s major strengths is not only offering new products, but
offering them together with menus that utilize them, which is a factor in
obtaining customer satisfaction and trust. As the graph (below) shows, since
2011, it has continued to grow at a rate exceeding the restaurant and HMR
markets thanks to the fruits of these efforts.Production Structures, Group
Subsidiaries Currently, the Company’s nationwide production system comprises seven factories
operated by the parent company and 9 factories operated by seven consolidated
subsidiaries. Subsidiaries production bases are closely linked to their
operating areas because they are the production bases for delicatessen-related
products for daily delivery to big box retailers, CVS, and other outlets. Above
all, just-in-time (JIT) response capability is essential for CVS that operate
24/7. Some of the factories therefore operate 365 days-a-year, with flexible
production systems that can quickly respond to changes in order volumes. Also, the Company’s subsidiary Salad Cafe Co., Ltd. operates specialty salad restaurants.
As of end-March 2015 there were 16 shops, mainly opened in department stores
and supermarkets.In terms of overseas
operations, the Company established a joint venture (49% equity stake) in
Indonesia with a local food producer in 2012 that began production (annual
capacity of about 4,000 tons) and sales of mayonnaise, dressings, and sauces in
Autumn 2013. This factory has obtained Halal certification, and apart from home
and commercial-use sales locally, it is engaged in the sale of liquid eggs. Locally
demand, in particular from Japanese-affiliated companies is so high that it has
to proceed with expansion of its facilities. From February 2015 the Company has
commenced exports to Japan of its “omayo” brand mayonnaise, which has received Halal certification, while
domestically it is in the process of expanding its sales channels on a number
of fronts. Because its overseas
businesses operate under equity-method affiliates, their sales are not
reflected in the Company’s consolidated sales, but are
recorded in non-operating income and expenses as equity in net income (losses)
of affiliates. They are included under Other Businesses in the consolidated
business segments. 報告內容僅供參考，不得作為任何投資引用之唯一依據，且其投資風險及決定應由投資人自行判斷並自負損益。