Nagaileben(JP-7447)TokyoStockExchangeFirstSectionAchievesMid-termManagementPlanAheadofSchedule,TakingPositiveStanceonShareholderReturns
  2015-02-09 提供機構：FISCO 作者：FISCO 點閱次數：11   

Marking its 100th anniversary
this fiscal year, Nagaileben Co., Ltd. <7447> (hereafter, “Nagaileben” or “the Company”) is the leading manufacturer
of medical wear, with domestic share of over 60%. In the consolidated business
results for the first quarter of FY8/15 announced by the Company, sales
amounted to \2,994mn, a 6.5% decrease year-on-year (“y-o-y”); operating profit amounted
to \784mn, a 15.0% decrease y-o-y; recurring profit amounted to \1,013mn, a
1.3% increase y-o-y; and quarterly net profit amounted to \649mn, a 5.4%
increase y-o-y. Although the operating profit decreased compared to the same period
of the previous fiscal year, it should not be a concern, as the first quarter
is usually a weak period for sales, and the level reached in the same period of
the previous year was higher than usual. In the business results for
the full-year of the ongoing FY8/15, the Company expects to achieve: \16,700mn
in sales, a 3% increase y-o-y; \5,006mn in operating profit, a 1.7 increase
y-o-y; \5,058mn in recurring profit, a 1.6 decrease y-o-y; and \3,244mn in
annual net profit, a 0.6% increase y-o-y. As for the recurring profit, the
Company recorded foreign exchange gains of \87mn in the previous year, but they
are not included in this year’s forecast. These are fairly
conservative forecasts, because of concerns regarding increases in the cost of
raw materials overseas due to the effects of exchange rate fluctuations and
processing charges. Thus there remains room for upward revisions if such
concerns do not materialize. In its previously stated Mid-Term Management Plan, the Company
has aimed to achieve sales of \16,800mn and operating profit of \5,100mn for
FY8/16. However, since it is likely to be achieved during FY8/15, the Company
newly released numerical goals to achieve sales of \17,500mn and operating
profit of \5,300mn for FY8/17 in its Mid-Term Management Plan. The Company
plans to achieve these goals through expanding overseas production and
strengthening its high-profit advanced function product range. Furthermore, the
Company is taking a positive stance on shareholder returns as it announced a share
buy-back of approximately 1.1mn shares to be carried out again at this time
through takeover bid (TOB).◆Company Profile Leading medical gowns
manufacturer boasting over 60% of domestic share of healthcare wear for nurses (1) Description of Businesses Nagaileben is a specialist manufacturer of medical gowns for
nurses, doctors, patients and others. Established in 1915 as Nagai Shoten, the
Company has a rich history. Since then, it has expanded operations nationally
and become a leading domestic manufacturer boasting more than 60% of the
healthcare wear for nurses market.●Sales Breakdown All of the Company’s products are medical wear
and related products. The sales contribution by item (FY8/14) is healthcare
wear 58.2%, doctor’s wear 16.5%, surgical wear
9.4%, patient wear 8.3%, utility wear 4.6%, shoes 1.5% and other products 1.5%.
Healthcare wear consists of products mainly for nurses and utility wear
consists of aprons, cardigans, and other items worn as outer garments. Profit
margins for each item do not vary significantly; however, the profit margins of
shoes and other products, which are purchased products, are relatively lower.In terms of sales contribution by region, eastern Japan
represents 52.2%, western Japan 36.0%, central Japan 10.8%, and overseas 1.0%.
While coverage is nationwide, sales in western Japan and abroad remain low,
leaving potential for future expansion.In terms of sales contribution by product (function), advanced
function products represent 48.1%, products of standard function 39.9%,
mass-produced products 6.3%, and DC brand products 5.8%. As an example, in
nursing wear products, when classified by price range, mass-produced products
are under ¥5,000, products with standard function ¥5,000-7,500, advanced function products are ¥7,500-10,000, and DC brand products over ¥10,000; the higher the price, the greater the profit margin.●Sales Channels &
Production Status The Company’s end users include nurses,
carers and doctors, with the purchasers of the products being mainly medical
facilities such as hospitals, nursing care facilities and others. However,
direct sales are not undertaken, with 100% being agency sales via medical
equipment wholesalers that trade with these medical and other facilities. As a
result, direct sales expenses are contained; however, as sales staff is
constantly in contact with large hospitals and other facilities, the Company
understands customers’ needs.In most cases, medical gowns
are laundered within the hospitals by the hospitals themselves, but in recent
years they have been switching to leasing. The lease term is typically four
years. Because there is demand in every four years, this is said to provide
stable support for the Company’s earnings. The Company’s production structure is composed of 97.4% of its own
production (domestic production: 54.3%, overseas production: 43.1%) and 2.6% of
purchased products. Overseas production is predominantly in Indonesia, but the
Company owns no factories and the goods are produced at factories of local
partners, which mitigates investment risk and reduces costs. The company’s strengths lie in its integrated system: planning, procurement
of raw materials, manufacturing, and sales (2) Distinctive
Characteristics & Strength The Company is a specialized
manufacturer of medical wear, and one of its strengths is that it has in place
systems to undertake everything from design to raw material procurement,
manufacturing and sales. In its product planning, it can accurately understand
customer needs and reflect them in its products. The Company provides products
not only with functionality including easiness to work in (comfortability),
anti-staticity, and washing durability (cost reduction), but also excellent
design, which earn a good reputation from its users. At the same time, in
manufacturing it is able to secure optimal materials, manufacture at low cost,
and sell after adding an appropriate margin by dealing directly with material
suppliers like synthetic fiber manufacturers and textile firms. Furthermore, in addition to
its large number of affiliated factories, it has the necessary financial
resources to be able to constantly maintain product item inventories that
extend into the thousands of varieties; while also being able to swiftly
respond to a broad range of user needs, including for made-to-order products,
through a rapid production and sales system (the Quick Response system) that
delivers the desired product on the specified day. This increases customers’ trust in it. On the sales side, it has a network of close to
1,000 agents nationwide, and while its sales capabilities are robust, sales
expenses are contained by the Company as much as possible. As a result, its share of the
domestic market for healthcare wear for nurses exceeds 60%, and it maintains
its firm position as the medical wear leading company. Additionally, it has
maintained profitability with a gross margin of 46.8% (actual results for
FY8/14). The fact that it is both highly profitable and has a high market share
means that most of its customers are satisfied with its products and services,
which is the Company’s greatest strength. By concentrating its business resources in the niche market of
medical wear, the Company can efficiently manage everything from design to
manufacturing and sales. Moreover, although it is a niche market, room for
further development remains, as it has relatively low market shares for patient
wear, surgical wear and other items. The Company has explicitly stated that the
medical wear business could grow for some time and it will move aggressively to
develop peripheral markets.◆Earnings Trends Consolidated business results
for the first quarter resulted within the original forecast, maintaining stable
financial conditions (1) Summary for the First
Quarter of FY8/15 ●Profit-loss Conditions In the consolidated results for the first quarter of FY8/15, the
Company achieved: sales of \2,994mn, a 6.5% decrease y-o-y; operating profit of
\784mn, a 15.1% decrease y-o-y; recurring profit of \1,013mn, a 1.3% increase
y-o-y; and quarterly net profit of \649mn, a 5.4% increase y-o-y. Although the
sales and operating profit decreased compared to the same period of the
previous fiscal year, it should not be a concern, as the first quarter is
usually a weak period for both sales and income. The recurring profit and net
profit increased, but these increases are due to the following causes and have
been originally forecasted; thus the results were in accord with the original
forecast.Although sales decreased
compared to the same period of the previous fiscal year, there was no
significant change in the market environment. This decrease was caused by a
higher than usual level reached in the previous year as well as delayed
renewals, but turned out not to be significant. Gross profit accounted for
46.8%, maintaining the same level as the same period last year. While the yen
is going down, there still seems to be no significant impact of the weak yen on
the cost of sales especially due to its early hedging. Meanwhile, SG&A
costs amounted to \617mn, an increase of 7.1%, but this was caused by an increase
in depreciation expense (about￥30mn) mainly due to the Company’s relocation of its main office; and this figure is yet within
the original forecast. An increase in recurring profit, however, was caused by an
increase in non-operating profit. The non-operating profit significantly increased
from \87mn to \237mn; this was due to that foreign exchange gains resulted from
the Company’s deposits in US dollars, which the
Company held for hedging purposes, increased from \62mn to \215mn.
Additionally, as for extraordinary profit/loss, there was no significant
recorded item.●Breakdown of Sales by ItemsIn sales by item; healthcare
wear amounted to \1,704mn, a 4.1% decrease y-o-y; doctor’s wear amounted to \445mn, a 11.6% decrease y-o-y; utility wear
amounted to 145mn, a 15.3% decrease y-o-y; patient wear amounted to \320mn, a
2.0% increase y-o-y; surgical wear amounted to \283mn, a 15.1% decrease y-o-y;
shoes amounted to \34mn, a 5.4% decrease y-o-y; and other products amounted to
\59mn, a 6.0% decrease y-o-y. It fell in all types except the patient wear, but
this was mostly due to delays in demand for renewals and recording of sales
items; it should not be a significant concern. Figures in sales by region and
by product for the first quarter have not been disclosed. ●Financial Position The Company’s financial status has remained stable. Total assets for the
first quarter of FY8/15 amounted to \37,460mn and decreased by \1,690mn
compared to the previous year-end. Total current assets amounted to \27,799mn
with a decrease by \1,790mn. These were primarily caused by a decrease of
\3,551mn in cash and deposits and an increase of \1,700mn in securities. Fixed
assets amounted to \9,660mn and increased by \100mn. The increase of securities
in the current assets was due to that the Company sold part of its investment
securities, which the Company held as “investment
and other assets”, and changed them to
short-term investment securities during the previous year. Total liabilities amounted to \3,656mn and decreased by \812mn compared
to the previous year. Its primary causes include a decrease of \1,011mn in
corporate tax payable. Net assets amounted to \33,804mn and decreased by \877mn
compared to the previous year-end. This was mainly caused by a decrease of \
1,105mn in retained earnings due to dividend payouts. As a result of these,
shareholders’ equity ratio accounted for 90.2% and
increased by 88.6% from the previous year-end.Company’s principal products
contributed to sales increase with its patient and operation wear expanding
steadily(2) FY8/15 ForecastFor the business results for
the full-year of FY8/15, the Company expects to achieve: \16,700mn in sales, a
3% increase y-o-y; \5,006mn in operating profit, a 1.7% increase y-o-y;
\5,058mn in recurring profit, a 1.6 % decrease y-o-y; and \3,244mn in net
profit, a 0.6% increase y-o-y. Due to cost issues, the Company expects the
growth rate in operating profit to be low, but, if these factors could be less
than anticipated, there would remain a possibility that the profit may exceed
the forecast. As seen above, while the business results for the first quarter
resulted in a decline in both sales and operating profit y-o-y, the Company has
not revised its original forecast as the results are not of significant
concern. Increased sales of mainstay healthcare wear as well as doctor’s wear and steady growth of patient wear and surgical wear are
expected to lead to higher sales. Further, the Company continues to focus on
raising its market share in central Japan and to the west, and plans to once
again achieve record sales and profits. The forecasts for sales by item, region
and product are shown below.Factors affecting gross profit
are expected to be increases of ¥226mn from higher sales and ¥53mn from the further expansion in the percentage of production
conducted overseas (forecast to be 44.4% by FY8/15 year-end) and decreases of ¥58mn due to increased material and processing costs and ¥17mn due to the exchange rate (with the FY8/15 exchange rate
forecast to be ¥89.2/USD). As a result, gross profit in
FY8/15 is forecast to be ¥7,752mn (an increase of ¥172mn, or 2.3%, y-o-y) and the gross profit margin to be 46.5%
(compared to 46.8% in FY8/14). While there is a concern for
cost increase due to the weak yen, it is unlikely that these negative factors
will occur all at once, especially since the Company has entered into foreign
exchange forward contracts. Even though the impact of the weak yen will
gradually surface, the Company plans to partially offset the cost increase by proceeding
with a plan to relocate to a new plant as stated below. A number of general
uniform manufacturers have already raised the prices of their products, but the
Company has not done so, and therefore there still remains to improve the sales
cost ratio by raising prices even in the worst case scenario. SG&A costs are forecast to be ¥2,751mn (a 5.7% increase y-o-y), as the increases in
depreciation costs of ¥41mn associated with the new
company headquarters and ¥30mn for costs related to the
Company’s 100th anniversary are expected. The
decrease in recurring profit y-o-y assumes that the foreign exchange gains
recorded in non-operating profit in FY8/14 will decline, but should the yen
have weakened further by the end of FY8/15 compared to FY8/14, it is possible
that this decline in profits will be less than anticipated. Furthermore, the
forecast assumes that the extraordinary profit that was recorded in FY8/14 (the
¥115mn profit on the sale of the old
headquarters) will not occur in FY8/15.◆Mid-term Management
Plan and Outlook As targets to be met ahead of
schedule, management announced mid-term targets for future periods (1) Mid-term Management Plan The Company had set sales of ¥16,800mn and operating profit of ¥5,100mn as the targets for FY8/16 in its Mid-Term Management
Plan. But given the strong possibility of it meeting these targets in FY8/15,
it has released new targets for it Mid-Term Management Plan for FY8/17, of
sales of ¥17,500mn and operating profit of ¥5,300mn. It plans to develop its business through implementing
the policies described below, but considering its business environment, these
targets can be considered fairly conservative and are very achievable.The Company’s business environment is favorable with potential improvement
in profit margin (2) Future Business Strategies
The operating environment
surrounding the Company should be favorable for some time. According to the “Outlook for Nursing & Healthcare Worker Numbers” released by the Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare, 1.65
million (a 2.57% increase over 2010) nurses are expected. Moreover, 1.76
million (a 5.71% increase over 2010) healthcare workers are expected in 2015,
and 2.49 million are forecasted by 2025 (a 4.27% increase over 2010). In this
operating environment, the Company plans to achieve its Mid-Term Management
Plan based on the following strategies. ●Expansion in Patient,
Surgical & Other Peripheral Market In its mainstay healthcare wear, the Company already maintains a
high market share and can expect stable renewal demand. On the other hand, the
peripheral market for patient wear and surgical wear and others still has
development potential. The Company plans to focus on expanding the peripheral
market by launching new products.●Increase Market Share
in Western Japan By region, the Company maintains a high market share in eastern
Japan, but in central Japan and western Japan, it has relatively low market
shares. In other words, these regions have potential for further market share
growth. To expand its market share, the Company will not merely conduct an
aggressive sales campaign, but it will actively launch advanced function
products and new products.●Development and Sales
of Advanced Function Product The Company is proactively developing products with even greater
functionality and added value; in order to deliver added value to markets where
it is already strong, and as weapons for marketing strategy in markets where it
seeks to increase its market share. To that end, its strategy is to collaborate
more closely with material manufacturers and trading companies while further
refining its Quick Response (QR) production system to raise customer satisfaction.●Improving Gross Profit
Margin In the last 20 years, the Company’s gross profit margin has improved approximately 12 points (from
around 35% to 47%). In the future, although improving profitability at the same
pace as before is not easy, the Company sees the potential for further
profitability improvement mainly for two reasons.The first is increased
overseas production. Currently, the Company’s ratio of overseas production is still around 43.1%, which is
low when compared to other apparel manufacturers. In other words, there is
considerable room to increase the overseas production ratio with potential for
improving profitability from expansion of overseas production. However, the
Company’s policy is to not shift domestic
production at once to overseas, but rather to produce the portion of the
increased sales at overseas while maintaining domestic production volumes. In
February 2014, the new factory, which had been under construction in Java in
central Indonesia, began operation, and it is expected that by the end of 2015,
the transfer of existing production from Jakarta will have been completed. The second measure to improve
profitability is the development of high value-added products. If the
percentage of sales of products with high profit margins increases, gross
profit margins overall too will improve. Furthermore, while there have been no
official announcements, it continues to develop new markets, and its plans for
new markets (new products) should also contribute to improving gross profit
margins in the future. ◆Shareholder Return
Policy Stable financial status and
income are expected to continue with its plan to provide steady dividends,
aiming for payout ratio of 50% The Company’s shareholders’ equity ratio has reached
90.2% (Q1 FY8/15) and it is fiscally stable. Additionally, considering the
Company’s business conditions, it seems highly
unlikely that those profits will rapidly deteriorate, so continued stable
earnings are expected. As a result, as its distribution of earnings outside the
Company (particularly dividend payments) is low and profits will accumulate in
shareholders’ equity each year, return on equity (ROE)
will decline, which is to say, capital efficiency will decline. In response to this, the Company has demonstrated a policy of
stable dividend payments and has targeted a dividend payout ratio of 50%
(nonconsolidated basis), with a dividend payout ratio at this level being high
even compared to the majority of listed companies. While the Company has
flexibly made share buy-backs, it announced a share buy-back (\1,500 per share,
purchased amount: \1,650mn) to be carried out through TOB at this time. Since
the share buy-backs are recorded as a reduction in total assets, undertaking
them leads to improvement in both earnings per share (EPS) and ROE, which means
the Company is highly conscious of its shareholder returns and maintaining
capital efficiency; and thus this should be also highly regarded. 報告內容僅供參考，不得作為任何投資引用之唯一依據，且其投資風險及決定應由投資人自行判斷並自負損益。