TOKAICorp.(JP-9729)TokyoStockExchangeFirstSectionATailwindfromRevisionsofMedicalFeeandtheNursingCareInsuranceSystem(I)
  2015-01-14 提供機構：FISCO 作者：FISCO 點閱次數：8   

TOKAI Corp. (9729) (hereafter,
“the Company”)’s three main businesses are
Healthcare Services, Pharmacy Services, and Environmental Services. While
contributing to Japan’s aging society in the fields
of healthcare and the environment, management aims to achieve consolidated
sales of \110bn and recurring profit of \8.5bn. In the first half of the
fiscal year ending March 2015, i.e. 1H FY3/15 (April to September), TOKAI Corp.
recorded consolidated net sales of \47,682mn, up 1.2% y-o-y and recurring
profit of \3,382mn, down 1.2% y-o-y, about the same as the same period of the
previous fiscal year. Healthcare Services and Pharmacy Services performed
strongly, with net sales increasing for a sixth consecutive year to achieve new
records. Meanwhile, operating profit declined for the first time in two years,
affected by increases in personnel costs associated with strengthening the
sales structure and lower sales in the cleaning equipment manufacturing
business and the solar power business; however, it was slightly higher than the
Company’s initial plan from the start of the
year. Forecast of consolidated
financial results for FY3/15 are for net sales of \99,328mn, up 4.4% y-o-y, and
recurring profit of \7,552mn, up 4.3% y-o-y, due to expansion in the healthcare
and environment markets. Net sales, operating profit, and recurring profit are
all projected to reach new record levels. Revisions of medical fee in
FY3/15 and the nursing care insurance system in FY3/16 are expected to push
demand for at-home medical care and nursing care a step higher, providing a
tailwind for the Company in expanding its earnings. In SILVER Services (rental
and sales of equipment for the care of the elderly), the Company will not only
provide local care-giving planners, but also expand sales from nursing care
equipment rental in collaboration with hospitals going forward. Moreover, in
Pharmacy Services, the Company plans to grow its earnings by expanding the
number of stores while strengthening initiatives for at-home drug dispensing
services. As the Japanese Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare works to build
a comprehensive community care system to cope with the needs of a super-aged
society, the Company has strong growth opportunities combining the three
business fields of Hospital Services, SILVER Services, and Dispensing Pharmacy
Services. We expect the Company will continue to achieve stable and continuous
earnings growth. Management
intends to provide a total return on investment of 15% to its shareholders. It
plans to pay a dividend of \32.0 per share for FY3/15, the same as it paid for
FY3/14. Based on the Company’s net profit forecast for FY3/15,
this dividend would provide a dividend payout ratio of 12.4%. Therefore, if the
Company achieves its net profit forecast, it may either raise the dividend or
buy back some shares.◆Business Description Core Drivers of Healthcare Services are Hospital Services
and SILVER Services. With its head office in Gifu Prefecture, TOKAI focuses on
health-related and environmental services through its three main businesses of
Healthcare Services, Pharmacy Services, and Environmental Services. As shown in
the bar chart below, the Healthcare Services and Pharmacy Services provided
about 90% of total consolidated sales and total consolidated operating profit
before company-wide expenses in FY3/14, and this has been the case for several
fiscal years.(1) Healthcare Services The Healthcare Services includes Hospital Services (linen
supply, nursing assistance, and distribution management within hospitals), the
SILVER Services (rental and sales of equipment for the care of the elderly),
the Food Supply (for medical institutions, nursing care facilities), the
manufacture and sale of cleaning equipment, and the production and distribution
of the Aqua Clara brand of bottled water, Japan’s leading brand, as a sub-licensee. These services are described
in the following table.Hospital Services generate
somewhat more than half the sales in Healthcare Services. These services
include the supply of linen to medical and nursing care facilities in the
Kanto, Chubu, Kansai, Chugoku and Shikoku areas of Japan. TOKAI Corp. is the
second-largest provider of hospital linen in Japan, after Watakyu Seimoa, an
unlisted company with nationwide operations and an equity-accounted affiliate
of ITOCHU Corporation (8001). Other Hospital Services provided include
administrative nursing support services, distribution management within
hospitals, and food supply. Thus, these services satisfy a wide range of
hospital needs as a one-stop service. The SILVER Services of renting
and selling equipment, mainly beds and wheelchairs, provides just short of 30%
of the sales in Healthcare Services. In this service, TOKAI Corp. ranks second
in Japan, behind FRANCE BED HOLDINGS CO., LTD. (7840). At the end of 1H FY3/15,
SILVER Services were provided in Kanto region and to the west through 58
branches or offices, 6 maintenance centers, and more than 400 affiliated
stores. The Company’s market share in this
business varies by region. In Shikoku, it is relatively high, at 30 – 40%. In the three metropolitan areas of Greater Tokyo, Greater
Osaka and Greater Nagoya, it is about 10%, but rising each year. As TOKAI Corp.
maintains close ties with local care-giving planners, it can offer detailed
services. The Food Supply service prepares meals for hospitals and nursing
care facilities and provides somewhat more than 10% of sales in the Healthcare
Services. The cleaning equipment manufacturing business conducted by subsidiary
PUREX Co. holds an approximately 40% share of the Japanese market for this
equipment, ranking it second in the country.Hospital Services and SILVER
Services combined account for more than 80% of sales and more than 90% of
profits in Healthcare Services. The SILVER Services are the most profitable,
with a double-digit operating profit margin.One of the Highest Levels of Profitability in the
Dispensing Pharmacy Industry (2) Pharmacy Services Consolidated subsidiary Tanpopo Pharmacy Co. operates dispensing
pharmacies in Tokai, Hokuriku, Kansai and Shikoku areas. This subsidiary has
steadily increased the number of its pharmacies through organic growth. At the
end of 1H FY3/15, it operated 114 pharmacies, ranking it 11th in the number of
pharmacies in Japan’s dispensing pharmacy
industry. The subsidiary opens new pharmacies near the entrances of large
hospitals to increase operational efficiency. Consequently, Pharmacy Services
maintains an operating profit margin of about 10%, which is among the highest
margins in the industry. Recently, this business has diversified into home-visiting
dispensing of pharmaceuticals at nursing care facilities for the elderly or at
patients’ homes.Franchise Business under the LEASEKIN Brand has Industry’s 2nd-Largest Share (3) Environmental Services The main environmental service
offered is the LEASEKIN service of franchising the sale and rental of mops,
mats, and other cleaning equipment to offices, stores and homes. The LEASEKIN
service has more than 1,200 franchisees nationwide. In this service, TOKAI
Corp. ranks second in Japan, after DUSKIN CO., LTD. (4665). Through
subsidiaries, this business also cleans and manages hospitals, facilities for
the care of the aged, and offices, and its solar power business sells solar
power systems and electricity. In April 2013, this business bought Bilmen Co.,
which maintains public hospitals and other large buildings in Greater Tokyo,
and made it a consolidated subsidiary. (4) Other Services Other Services include the provision of management information
and are provided by consolidated subsidiary Japan Intelligence Mart.◆Business Trends 2Q Consolidated Net Sales Achieve New Record for a Sixth
Consecutive Year (1) Overview of consolidated
operating results for 1H FY3/15 In TOKAI’s consolidated operating results for 1H FY3/15, consolidated
sales were \47,682mn, up 1.2% y-o-y, operating profit was \3,243mn, down 1.3%
y-o-y, recurring profit was \3,382mn, down 1.2% y-o-y, and net profit was
\2,089mn, down 2.2% y-o-y. Company’s core healthcare-related
business performed steadily, with Healthcare Services and Pharmacy Services
both recording year-on-year increases in sales and profits, as consolidated
sales reached new record for a sixth consecutive year. Operating profit
declined for the first time in two years, affected by increases in personnel
costs associated with strengthening the sales structure and lower sales in the
cleaning equipment manufacturing business and the solar power business;
however, it was slightly higher than the Company’s initial plan from the start of the year. Business trends by
segment were as follows.Higher sales and profits in Healthcare Services and
Pharmacy Services (2) 1H FY3/15 Results by
Business ○Healthcare Services In Healthcare Services, both sales and profits continued their
increasing trend, as sales grew by 1.7% y-o-y in 1H FY3/15 to \23,835mn, and
operating profit rose by 2.1% y-o-y to \1,923mn.By core businesses, sales in
Hospital Services increased by 3.8% y-o-y, and operating profit advanced by
34.4%. The increases were primarily due to a rise in the number of hospital
bedding contracts, up 5.0% y-o-y, mainly for special nursing homes for the
aged, long-term care health facilities, and elderly housing with supportive
services. An additional factor was strong performances in key products with the
“hospitalization set”* jumped
by 40.2% y-o-y, and its revenue from the rental of the “NEXSURG.” brand of reusable operating
room linen for hospitals advanced by 14.1%. In SILVER Services, sales
increased 2.4% y-o-y and operating profit climbed 1.5% y-o-y. The total number
of nursing care equipment rental sales centers at the end of 1H FY3/15 was 58
with the opening of 1 new center (Edogawa-ku, Tokyo). Rental sales continued to
perform steadily, primarily for electric beds and wheelchairs. However, sales
and profits fell slightly short of initial plans due to intensifying
competition from rental wholesalers PARAMOUNT BED CO., LTD. (7817) and Nippon
Care Supply Co., Ltd. (2393). Sales growth slowed due to the impacts of lower
sales to affiliated stores because of increased competition and a drop in
product sales in reaction to the consumption tax rate increase. Nevertheless,
looking only at sales of direct rentals, we see a 6.6% year-on-year increase.
Looking ahead, the Company will strengthen its personnel system and focus its
efforts on expanding rental sales to become No. 1 in Japan. In other business, both sales
and profits declined, with sales down 26.0% y-o-y and operating profit down
69.8% y-o-y. The declines are due to a significant fall in demand in the
cleaning equipment manufacturing operation of subsidiary PUREX Co., driven by a
fallback from a surge in demand ahead of the consumption tax rate increase. ○Pharmacy Services In Pharmacy Services, both sales and profits increased, with
sales of \17,841mn, up 3.0% y-o-y, and operating profit of \1,709mn, up 1.0%
y-o-y.Factors increasing sales
include a 1.1% y-o-y increase in the number of prescriptions received due to an
increase in the number of pharmacies and a 1.9% y-o-y increase in the average
value of prescription filled. The number of pharmacies at the end of 1H FY3/15
increased by 9 from the end of 1H FY3/14 to 114, (including 4 pharmacies opened
during the period under review). Moreover, the Company is stepping up its
initiatives for at-home drug dispensing services. Sales for these services
increased steadily by 29.5% y-o-y to \233mn, and the number of pharmacies
implementing the initiative came to just short of 50. Operating profit in this
segment increased due to the effect of higher sales and two special factors,
despite an increase in personnel costs because of a higher number of
pharmacists (up 28 from the end of FY3/14). The first of the two factors was
the new inclusion within the scope of consolidation of a medical supply
wholesale company that supplies Tanpopo Pharmacy; and the second was that the
Company procured this fiscal year’s stock of pharmaceutical
products in advance as a countermeasure to the consumption tax rate increase in
the previous fiscal year, so that the corresponding consumption tax was
recorded in expenses for the previous fiscal year. Furthermore, looking at the
effects of the revision of medical fee system implemented in April 2014,
although there was a negative impact from the revision of the special exemption
on basic dispensing pharmacy fees,* the impact was minimized because the ratio of generic
pharmaceutical products traded advanced more than initially envisaged, climbing
to 54.3% in 1H FY3/15. Pharmacy Services is distinctive in that it maintains a high
level of profitability. In 1H FY3/15 the operating profit margin was 9.6%, as
the Company continued to achieve one of the highest levels of profitability
compared with other companies in the same industry.○Environmental Services Environmental Services was the only one of the three core
businesses to record lower sales and profits, with sales declining 5.4% y-o-y
and operating profitof \292mn, down 13.6% y-o-y. The results were attributable
to recording large quantity of product sales in the solar power business in the
same period of the previous fiscal year and a pullback in the Leasekin business
in reaction to the consumption tax rate increase. On the other hand, the
hospital cleaning business grew steadily by over 20% y-o-y. 報告內容僅供參考，不得作為任何投資引用之唯一依據，且其投資風險及決定應由投資人自行判斷並自負損益。