createrestaurantsholdingsinc.(JP-3387)TokyoStockExchangeFirstSectionRealizingHighGrowthPotentialbyEngagingin“GroupFederationManagement”throughM&As;
  2015-05-25 提供機構：FISCO 作者：FISCO 點閱次數：9   

create restaurant holdings inc. <3387> focuses mainly on
operation of restaurants and food courts inside shopping centers, and is also
developing izakaya (traditional Japanese eating and drinking establishments)
and restaurant formats acquired though M&As. The company carefully selects
locations that attract large numbers of customers, and employs a distinctive
multi-brand, multi-location strategy, which involves developing a variety of
restaurant formats attuned to specific locations (regional characteristics,
customer attributes, and competition status, etc.). This strategy has supported
the company’s main business. Currently, the company
has 616 restaurants in approximately 170 formats. Moreover, the company is
achieving high growth by engaging in “group
federation management,” which involves incorporating
formats with high growth potential into the company’s growth through M&As. One example is a chain of seafood
izakaya that has been gaining popularity with its 24-hour operation in
favorable locations in front of train stations. In this way, the company
appears to have entered a new growth phase. In the company’s business results for FY2/15
(the fiscal year from March 1, 2014 to February 28, 2015), it recorded
significant increases in sales and profits and set new record for net sales and
income levels, with net sales increasing by 32.0% year on year (YOY) to
\69,309mn and ordinary income increasing by 15.5% to \4,383mn. The results
reflected a significant contribution to sales from the start of the fiscal year
by SFP Dining Co., Ltd. <3198> (izakaya format operator), with which the company
made a capital alliance during FY2/14, and a greater-than-expected number of
new restaurant openings. Meanwhile, the company increased its profits, with the
increase in sales absorbing the effects of rising raw material prices due to
the yen’s depreciation and increases in start-up
expenses and goodwill depreciation expenses associated with new restaurant
openings. In its business results forecast for FY2/16, the company is
forecasting continued significant increases in sales and profits, with net
sales projected to increase by 18.3% YOY to \82,000mn, and ordinary income to
increase by 39.1% to \6,100mn. New restaurant openings in the izakaya format
have proceeded more successfully than anticipated, and the company now expects
to achieve the targets of its medium-term management plan ending in FY2/17 a
year early. The company has announced a
new medium-term management plan ending in FY2/18, recognizing that its pace of
growth may outstrip the initial plan. The company is aiming to achieve high
growth through to FY2/18, targeting a network of 824 restaurants with net sales
of \108,000mn (CAGR of 15.9% over three years) and ordinary income of \9,000mn
(CAGR of 27.1% over three years). The strategy for achieving this is to promote
1) sustainable growth of group operating companies in Japan, 2) high quality
M&As within Japan, and 3) global expansion. Furthermore, in terms of
capital efficiency, the company aims to maintain its ROE at a level of 20% or
more.In particular, company plans
to drive its growth through aggressive expansion in the number of restaurants
in its strong-performing seafood izakaya chain. Moreover, in its mainstay
business operation the company is also projecting steady growth given the ample
scope for opening new restaurants targeting newly built shopping centers and
tenant replacement at existing shopping centers, and so forth. Meanwhile,
although M&As will also form an important growth strategy going forward,
they are not included in the numerical targets. It is therefore worth noting their
potential as a factor for boosting the company’s operating results depending on
the timing and scale of each M&A.◆Business Overview Developing the izakaya and
restaurant formats with restaurant operation inside commercial facilities as
the mainstay business (1) Business Details The company focuses mainly on
operation of restaurants and food courts inside shopping centers and is also
developing izakaya and restaurant chains acquired through M&As. As a
holding company, the company has 11 consolidated subsidiaries (4 of which are
overseas) and 2 affiliates (in Shanghai and Dalian). The company carefully selects
locations that attract large numbers of customers, and employs a distinctive
multi-brand, multi-location strategy, which involves developing a variety of
restaurant formats attuned to specific locations (regional characteristics,
customer attributes, and competition status, etc.). This strategy has supported
the company’s main business. Recently, the company is
achieving a high rate of growth by promoting “group federation management,”* which
involves incorporating various formats with high growth potential into the
company’s growth through aggressive M&A
activities. Currently, the company has 616 restaurants in approximately 170
formats. The company’s businesses are
divided into four categories: (a) the CR Category, involving the operation of
restaurants and food courts inside shopping centers, (b) the SFP Category,
involving the operation of izakaya formats, (c) the Specialty Brands Category,
involving the operation of various restaurant formats, and (d) the Overseas
Category, which involves operation of Japanese restaurants in Singapore, Hong
Kong, mainland China, and so forth.The mainstay CR Category makes
up 53.2% of the company’s sales, while the SFP Category, which was made part of
the group through an M&A, makes up 32.2%, the Specialty Brands Category 10.7%,
and the Overseas Category 3.6% (as of the end of FY2/15).Looking at the composition of
restaurants by location, 31.8% of the company’s restaurants are in suburban
shopping centers, with 23.2% in urban shopping centers, 27.2% in roadside
locations, 8.3% in railway station buildings, 4.1% in department stores, and
5.4% overseas.Starting out from the
restaurant business to expand the number of restaurants mainly in commercial
facilities (2) History The company was established in
1997 as the Yokosuka Brewing Company K.K. (the trading name was changed to
create restaurants inc. in 1999) by Tokuju, K.K., the family business of the
company’s current chairman, Hitoshi Gotoh.
However, its actual foundation was in 1999, when it took over the operation of
five western-style restaurants from Tokuju and started the restaurant business
in earnest. In 2000, then employee of Mitsubishi Corporation <8058> and
current representative director, president and CEO Haruhiko Okamoto
participated in the company through an in-house venture scheme, and the company
also received capital investment from Mitsubishi (the capital relationship with
Mitsubishi was eliminated in 2012). Thereafter, backed by Mitsubishi’s credit capabilities and other aspects, the company accelerated
its growth by increasing its number of restaurants mainly by opening them in
commercial facilities and the like. In 2005, the company listed on the Tokyo
Stock Exchange Mothers market, changing to the First Section of the Tokyo Stock
Exchange in 2013. The company has also been
aggressive in M&A activity, bringing the Japanese cuisine chain KISSO under
its umbrella in 2007 and shifting to a holding company structure in 2010 to
establish a platform for group federation management. The company went on to acquire
LE MONDE DES GOURMET (100%) in 2012, in SFP Dining (68.68%) and eatwalk (100%)
in 2013, YUNARI (100%) and Shanghai Bishoku Chushin Co.,Ltd. (trading name
changed from R21 Cuisine; 99.97%) in 2014, and others as it formed a group step
by step. SFP Dining was listed on the Second Section of the Tokyo Stock
Exchange in December 2014. In overseas development, the
company started in 2008 by establishing a joint venture with a local company in
Shanghai, and went on to establish wholly-owned subsidiaries in mainland China
in 2010, Singapore in 2011, Hong Kong in 2012, and Taiwan in 2014, among other
initiatives. The company’s overseas development is
still considered to be in the experimental stage, but it is preparing the
groundwork for a full-fledged expansion in the future. Meeting diverse needs with
multi-brand, multi-location strategy (3) Characteristics ・Multi-brand,
multi-location strategy The characteristics of the
company’s main business are 1) opening restaurants in commercial facilities
that attract large numbers of customers (shopping centers, station buildings,
etc.) and 2) operating diverse formats attuned to their local environments
(regional characteristics and customer attributes, status of competition,
etc.). The diversity of these formants, including Japanese, western, and
Chinese cuisine, as well as ethnic food and cafes, enables the company to open
multiple restaurants within a single commercial facility and respond to various
needs of the facility owner (developer, etc.). This has worked to the company’s
advantage in opening restaurants inside commercial facilities, which typically
have a higher barrier to entry. Naturally, there is also a cost factor involved
in creating multiple formats attuned to their local environments; however, the
capacity to open formats that use the customer drawing power of favorable sites
to maximum advantage is the company’s true worth. It has accumulated format
development and operational know-how that are the source of its value creation.Another pillar of the company’s store-opening strategy is the seafood izakaya ISOMARU SUISAN.
This chain’s special characteristic is its 24-hour
operation in station-front areas populated with convenience stores and drug
stores. Despite facing harsh competition within urban downtown districts, the
chain deliberately selects high-cost station-front sites due to its insistence
on locations that attract large numbers of customers. This is one reason why,
the chain has a strong affinity with the strategy employed by the company thus
far. Therefore, it can be seen as an extension of the scope of the
multi-location strategy to include roadside restaurants within urban downtown
districts, and it could pave the way for future full-scale development of
diverse roadside formats in urban downtown areas, in addition to the existing
commercial facilities. ・Growth model based on
group federation management The company’s growth model includes organic (internal) growth as well as the
incorporation into the group of formats with strong growth potential through
M&A. In addition, the company provides support for growth through various
synergy effects and by providing a platform that includes funding and
management support. Ultimately, it ties these aspects into the company’s own growth. In the past, it made use of the backing from
Mitsubishi and other advantages to expand its business base through the
operation of restaurants and food courts inside commercial facilities. However,
this growth model is heavily influenced by the conditions of the commercial
facility side, prompting the company to transfer to a holding company structure
and shift to a strategy that aims for autonomous growth through group
federation management. Without a doubt, with its roots as a venture of
Mitsubishi, the company has a familiar management style in terms of management
resources (personnel highly skilled in management, etc.) and culture, and also
is highly likely to be recognized by investees as a partner with whom it is
easy to build relationships with relatively little friction or resistance. Entrepreneurs who start up
extremely attractive restaurant formats only to encounter barriers in terms of
management when attempting to upscale their businesses are a common sight. The
factors affecting the company’s growth potential going forward are therefore
how well it can find the optimal group management model, build trust between
group companies, and support the growth of each company.◆Past Performance After passing through periods
of rapid growth and adjustment, since FY2/13 the company has been in a period
of group expansion Looking at the company’s past performance, its growth has been driven by increasing the
number of restaurants through new restaurant openings and M&As. In
accordance with the changes in its restaurant opening strategy, the company’s growth can be divided into three periods: a rapid growth
period from FY2/06 to FY2/08, an adjustment period from FY2/09 to FY2/12, and a
group expansion period from FY2/13 onwards. During the rapid growth
period, amid a rush in construction of large-scale suburban shopping centers
ahead of the full-scale enforcement of the three laws on city planning* scheduled for 2008, the company also
opened a large number of new restaurants, achieving rapid growth in net sales.However, going into FY2/09, as
the cycle of shopping center construction came to an end following the revision
of the laws, in addition to elimination of the shopping centers that have been
erected hastily ahead of the enforcement of the laws, there were also signs of
distortion from the rapid opening of restaurants by the company (some formats
were not compliant and so forth). The company therefore proceeded to liquidate
unprofitable restaurants while restricting new openings, leading to temporary
declines in the number of restaurants and net sales. However, the adjustments
have delivered a significant improvement in profit margins, and the company has
maintained earnings growth. Having achieved a measure of
success, such as an improved profit margin, through its adjustments including
liquidation of unprofitable restaurants and format changes, and having shifted
to a holding company structure, in FY2/13, the company embarked on a new growth
strategy of group federation management predicated on M&As. By bringing
various formats with growth potential into the group, while supporting further
expansion of restaurant openings, the company has achieved a high growth rate
and appears to have entered a new growth phase. In the financial front, the
company’s equity ratio, a measure of financial
base stability, achieved a level above 35% in FY2/12, but fell to 19.7% upon
entering the group expansion period in FY2/13, due to acquiring the shares held
by Mitsubishi through a take-over bid and cancelling approximately 80% of them
(31.28% of the total number of issued shares at the time). However, the company
has subsequently improved its equity ratio to 32.4% by bolstering its equity
through a sale of treasury shares in FY2/14 and by issuing new shares in
association with the listing of its subsidiary SFP Dining in FY2/15. Moreover,
the net balance of interest-bearing debt fell to \2,413mn. Looking at the status of cash
flows, the company’s cash flows for investment activities remained within the
scope of stable operating cash flows until FY2/13, but have expanded
significantly since FY2/14 due to aggressive new restaurant openings and
M&As. However, the current ratio, an indicator of the company’s ability to
meet short-term obligations, is at 124.3%, a level that does not give cause for
concern.◆Overview of Financial
Results Significant increase in sales
and profit for FY2/15 with steady performance in CR Category and contribution
from SFP Dining (1) Overview of FY2/15
financial results For FY2/15 the company
recorded significant increases in sales and profits, with net sales increasing
by 32.0% YOY to \69,309mn, operating income increasing 12.5% to \4,164mn,
ordinary income increasing 15.5% to \4,383mn, and net income increasing 258.5%
to \6,495mn. In particular, the prominent growth in net income was caused by a
gain on changes in equity of \6,456mn, which was booked in relation to the
company’s shares of SFP Dining, following the
latter’s listing on the stock market. The increase in net sales
reflected strong performance in the mainstay CR Category, along with a
greater-than-expected number of new restaurant openings in the SFP Category,
which received a full-year contribution of SFP Dining following its acquisition
in July 2013. Moreover, there was also growth in the Specialty Brands Category
with the acquisition of YUNARI in April 2014 and the Overseas Category, which
saw contribution to results from new restaurant openings. Turning to profits, the
company recorded a significant increase in ordinary income due to the increase
in net sales, which absorbed the effects of a higher cost of sales ratio caused
by rising raw material prices due to the yen’s depreciation, as well as a decline in the ordinary margin to
6.3% (7.2% in FY2/14) reflecting an increased burden from start-up expenses
associated with aggressive new restaurant openings as well as goodwill
depreciation. Looking at the balance sheet,
total assets increased due to aggressive new restaurant openings and M&As,
while the issuance of shares associated with the new listing of consolidated
subsidiary SFP Dining also contributed to a significant increase in net assets.
As a result, the equity ratio, a measure of financial stability, improved to
32.4% (26.1% in FY2/14). Moreover, the net balance of interest-bearing debt
declined to \2,413mn (down 80.8% YOY), and the debt-equity ratio fell sharply
to 0.16 times (1.35 times in FY2/14). This strengthening of the company’s financial base appears likely to be linked to driving the
company’s growth strategy for the future. Results by category are as
follows. In the mainstay CR Category,
net sales climbed 3.8% YOY to \36,905mn, while ordinary income decreased by
17.5% to \3,648mn. Same-store sales slipped 0.1% due to an adverse reaction to
the increase in the consumption tax rate. However, the company recorded an
overall increase in sales for the category due to an increase in the number of
restaurants, up by 14 at the fiscal year-end from the end of the previous
fiscal year to 364, and the effects of format changes. Moreover, although
same-store sales declined, they did outperform the forecast at the start of the
fiscal year. In terms of profits, ordinary income for the Category declined,
reflecting an increase in the cost of sales ratio due to rising raw material
costs, an increase in hiring costs, and an increase in the cost of new
restaurant openings. In the SFP Category, net sales
were up 103.2% YOY to \22,288mn, while ordinary income climbed 119.9% to
\2,126mn. These significant increases in sales and profits reflected the
full-year of contribution to earnings by SFP Dining, with which the company
formed a capital alliance in April 2013, and faster-than-expected progress in
new restaurant openings in the strong-performing seafood izakaya ISOMARU
SUISEN.In the Specialty Brands
Category, net sales increased by 87.0% YOY to \7,422mn, while ordinary income
rose 138.5% to \415mn. The increases reflected the contribution to results from
YUNARI, which was acquired in April 2014. The number of restaurants at fiscal
year-end also increased, rising by 36 from the end of FY2/14 to 82 (of which,
28 were YUNARI restaurants). In the Overseas Category,
sales increased and the loss narrowed, as net sales rose by 33% YOY to
\2,483mn, while ordinary loss was \147mn (compared to ordinary loss of \243mn
in FY2/14). Five new restaurant openings contributed to the increase in net
sales, while closure of five unprofitable restaurants in mainland China helped
to narrow the ordinary loss.Increase in sales and profit
forecast for FY2/16 and steady openings of ISOMARU SUISAN restaurants to
continue (3) Forecast for FY2/16
business results In its business results
forecast for FY2/16, the company is forecasting continued significant increases
in net sales and ordinary income, with net sales projected to increase by 18.3%
YOY to \82,000mn, operating income to increase by 32.1% to \5,500mn, ordinary
income to increase by 39.1% to \6,100mn, and net income to decrease by 46.1% to
\3,500mn. New restaurant openings in the izakaya format have proceeded more
successfully than anticipated, and the company now expects to achieve the
targets of its medium-term management plan ending in FY2/17 a year early. Net sales are expected to
increase with the contribution of growth in the number of restaurants in the CR
and SFP categories. In particular, the company intends to continue steadily
opening restaurants in the strong-performing seafood izakaya chain ISOMARU
SUISAN. On the profit front, the
ordinary income margin is projected to climb 7.4%, with the increase in net
sales absorbing an expected increase in the cost of sales reflecting the
persistently high prices of raw materials due to the continued depreciation of
the yen, and increases in the cost of sales ratio due to format composition
changes (increase in the proportion of izakaya formats), as well as a projected
increase in start-up expenses associated with new restaurant openings. The forecast by category is as
follows. In the CR Category, the
company is projecting significant growth, with net sales expected to increase by
6.1% YOY to \38,382mn and ordinary income to increase 1.8% to \3,601mn.
Aggressive new restaurant openings (31 restaurants planned) are expected to
contribute to the increase in earnings. In the SFP Category, the
company is projecting significant increases in sales and profits, with net
income expected to increase by 39.0% YOY to \30,970mn and ordinary income to
increase by 59.8% to \3,397mn. Aggressive new restaurant openings, mainly in
the high-performing seafood izakaya chain ISOMARU SUISAN (40 restaurants
planned) are expected to drive earnings growth. In the Specialty Brands
Category, the company is expecting net sales to increase by 13.0% YOY to
\9,374mn and ordinary income to increase by 99.4% to \995mn. A full year
contribution from YUNARI, acquired in May 2014, and new restaurant openings
within other group companies under the Specialty Brands Category, including
from FY2/15 (12 new restaurants planned for FY2/16) are expected to contribute
to earnings growth. In the Overseas Category, the
company is projecting an increase in sales and a return to profitability, with
net sales expected to increase by 19.8% YOY to 2,974mn and ordinary income to
reach \71mn (ordinary loss of \147mn was recorded in FY2/15). The company
intends to improve its income with the contribution of new restaurant openings,
including from FY2/15 (five new restaurants planned for FY2/16) and by closing
unprofitable restaurants in mainland China (four restaurant closings planned).◆Growth Strategy Medium-term management plan
targets to be achieved a year early with higher pace of growth The company has been promoting
a medium-term management plan covering the period from FY2/15 to FY2/17.
However, the company now expects to achieve the targets of the plan a year
early due to aggressive new restaurant openings and M&As that have
outperformed the plan. Moreover, the company’s growth pace seems increasingly likely to move faster than the
initial plan. The company has therefore announced a new medium-term management
plan covering the period form FY2/16 to FY2/18. Continuing under the basic
strategy of the medium-term management plan, “group federation management,” the
company is aiming to achieve high growth, targeting a network of 824
restaurants with net sales of \108,000mn (CAGR of 15.9% over three years) and
ordinary income of \9,000mn (CAGR of 27.1% over three years). The strategy for
achieving this is to promote 1) sustainable growth of group operating companies
in Japan, 2) high quality M&As within Japan, and 3) global expansion.
Furthermore, in terms of capital efficiency, the company aims to maintain its
ROE at a level of 20% or more.In particular, company’s
growth over the medium term is expected to be driven by aggressive new
restaurant openings in its high-performing seafood izakaya chain ISOMARU SUISAN
(40 restaurants planned). Moreover, in the mainstay CR Category, the company is
also planning to achieve steady growth by opening between 30 and 40 new
restaurants a year, targeting newly built shopping centers and tenant
replacement at existing shopping centers, and so forth. Meanwhile, although the
company will continue to undertake M&As as an important growth strategy,
they are not included in the numerical targets. It is therefore worth noting
their potential as a factor for boosting the company’s operating results
depending on the timing and scale of each M&A.◆Shareholder Returns Maintain a dividend payout
ratio of around 30%, significant scope for dividend increased in line with
profit growth The company’s basic policy is to pay stable dividends targeting a
consolidated payout ratio of around 30%, taking into consideration factors such
as operating results and future business development. For FY2/15, the company
plans to pay an annual dividend of \22.70 per share, a YOY increase of \0.67
(after adjustment for a stock split). Discounting special factors associated
with the new listing of consolidated subsidiary SFP Dining, the company appears
to be maintaining a dividend payout ratio of around 30%. Based on the company’s medium-term management plan, it is forecasting a high pace of
growth driven by continued aggressive business development. It therefore seems
likely that there will be significant scope for dividend increases in line with
profit growth over the medium term. In addition, with the goal of
securing liquidity and expanding its investor-base, the company conducted a
three-for-one stock split with a record date of August 31, 2014. The company also conducts a shareholder
benefits program by distributing meal vouchers in accordance with the number of
shares held, twice a year. In tandem with the abovementioned stock split, the
shareholder benefits program was also enhanced. It now includes shareholders
holding between 100 and 299 shares, on a post-split basis, and offers a
two-fold increase to some shareholders who were already eligible. 報告內容僅供參考，不得作為任何投資引用之唯一依據，且其投資風險及決定應由投資人自行判斷並自負損益。