ADERANS(JP-8170)TokyoStockExchangeFirstSectionExpandingoverseasbusinessthroughsubsidiariesasnoJapanesecompetitorcan(II)
  2015-07-27 提供機構：FISCO 作者：FISCO 點閱次數：3   

◆Results Trends Sales set a new a record high with four consecutive
periods of growth (1) Consolidated FY3/15
Financial Highlights The Company’s FY3/15 consolidated results, which were announced on May 11,
show increases in sales and earnings, with sales up 5.3% y-o-y to ¥60, 327mn, operating profit up 23.6% y-o-y to ¥3,001mn, recurring profit up 22.9% y-o-y to ¥2,776mn and net profit 29.7% to ¥1,642mn. Sales rose for a fourth consecutive period, setting a
new record high for a third consecutive period, with recurring and net profit
both posting growth for the first time in two periods. Against the Company’s plan also both sales and earnings were slightly above target,
making it we feel a sound set of results.Examining the industry trends
respectively, in Company’s main target markets
including restaurants, big box retailers and CVSs, we can see that in the
restaurant industry, family restaurants have seen increased health
consciousness and also a rise in amounts paid per customer with positive
year-on-year growth, while in the Izakaya (Japanese-style restaurant -bar) and
fast food restaurant industries customer traffic has stalled leading to
negative growth, in turn leading to slightly negative growth for the restaurant
industry overall. On the other hand, in the supermarket and CVS industries,
amidst expansion in HMR demand in both industries, the Company has succeeded in
efforts to strengthen its lunchbox and delicatessen menu product lineup,
displaying positive year-on-year growth. Looking at the Company’s sales by market, with respect to the restaurant industry,
despite sales to the fast food industry being lackluster, due to the impact of
strengthened marketing activities, including meticulous menu proposals that
business segment and industry segment teams have engaged in to date, overall
sales were on a par with those levels last year. Further, in respect of the big
box retailer and CVS industries, both saw year-on-year sales increases
exceeding 8%. Apart from processed egg products being used in many products,
with a tailwind provided by expansion in the HMR market, the main factor was
sound performance in both salads and delicatessen items. Looking at the factors behind
fluctuations in recurring profit, the main factors tending to boost earnings
were the impact of higher revenues ¥204mn,
mayonnaise and processed egg product price revisions ¥540mn, and ¥282mn as both edible oil and
egg market prices showed composure with stable, high prices. On the other hand,
factors tending to lower earnings included ¥216mn in costs incurred due to the consolidation of production
facilities, ¥179mn in increases in fixed costs, and ¥113mn in increased distribution expenses. The costs incurred in
consolidation of production facilities mean costs incurred in closing the Niiza
Factory held by subsidiary KANTOH DIET EGG Co., Ltd., consolidation of operations
in the Shizuoka Fujisan Factory and related costs, associated with the Shizuoka
Fujisan Factory, which commenced operations from April 2014 as an integrated
production facility for processed egg products, becoming fully operational (all
lines operating from October).Significant sales growth in processed egg products, with
new take-ups concentrated around CVS (2) Trends by Business Segment
○Seasoning/Processed
Food Business Sales in the seasoning and
processed food business rose 4.6% y-o-y to ¥49,733mn, with segment profit rising 25.8% y-o-y to ¥2,648mn. Looking at sales trends by
product type, we see that salads and delicatessen items performed soundly,
rising 5.6% y-o-y to ¥16,758mn (with volumes sold up
3.8%). Due to meticulous sales activities by business segment and industry
segment, long-life salads performed soundly focused on the Company’s flagship potato salad. Further, the small-package “Salad Made by a Salad Pro” salad series for big box retailers and CVS, which were
introduced for home use from 2013, also performed well.Mayonnaise and dressings
declined 1.9% y-o-y to ¥16,771mn (with volumes sold
down 3.0%), which was the only decline in sales by category. Apart from new
uptake of mayonnaise for baked bread and dressings for restaurants progressing,
the World Sauces series also steadily expanded sales through developing the
number of items in the lineup, however, the impact of the 11.0% y-o-y decline
in sales to restaurants was felt. Within the restaurant industry sales to the
family restaurant, sushi and rice-bowl subsectors grew, however, they were
unable to cover declines in the fast food and Izakaya subsectors. Processed egg products
performed well, rising 11.4% y-o-y to ¥15,115mn
(with volumes sold up 9.7%). New uptake, concentrated around CVS, for a variety
of processed products including egg salads for sandwiches and delicatessen
bakery products, thick omelettes for lunchboxes, kinshi-tamago and boiled eggs,
led to significant increases in sales. In particular, at the Shizuoka Fujisan
Factory, which commenced operations from April 2014, the Company has developed
a continuous and integrated production line from cracking the eggs to the final
processes. Since it became fully operational in H2, the new line has
contributed to earnings, for example by enhancing quality and taste markedly
compared with that of the previous line, which has helped to increase sales of
high-value-added products, as well as leading to the acquisition of customers
such as large-scale sushi chains.○Delicatessen-Related
Business In delicatessen and related
businesses, there was growth in sales but a decline in earnings, with a rise of
9.7% y-o-y to ¥9,419mn in sales, while segment profit
declined 5.6% y-o-y to ¥348mn. Apart from cut
vegetables, which are limited to the Hokkaido region and commenced from
December 2013, items including potato salad and macaroni salad for big box
retailers grew steadily, due to expansion in HMR demand. Given that the growth
rate for sales of delicatessen products in the supermarket industry showed a
rise of 6% y-o-y, we may note that the Company growth exceeded the industry
average. On the other hand, rises in
the market price of poultry eggs and the surges in Summer market vegetable
prices impacted from a profit perspective, resulting in a decline in earnings.
However, looking only at H2, sales performed well, rising 10.1% y-o-y, and
segment profit also expanded from ¥38mn
in H2 FY3/14 to ¥199mn. Moreover, the Hokkaido
cut vegetable business performed above the Company’s plan and contributed to earnings.○Other Businesses In addition to revenue from
its salad specialty shops, developed under subsidiary Salad Cafe, results in
the Other Business segment, included losses from equity in net income from
affiliates from overseas operations. Sales rose 0.1% y-o-y to ¥1,175mn, while segment losses were ¥229mn (compared to a loss of ¥216mn in the last period). The Salad Cafe business had a slight
increase in profits, however, equity in net losses from affiliates, which were
also impacted on by continued yen depreciation, rose from ¥229mn to ¥246mn. In its Chinese business,
despite losses declining by ¥39mn, due to consolidation of
business locations, the pace of improvement in revenue lagged the Company’s plan, providing an issue for further consideration in the future.
On the other hand, while the amount of losses in its Indonesian business, that
commenced operations from Autumn 2013, increased to ¥56mn in FY3/15, which was the first 12-month set of accounts,
acquisition of customers such as Halal specialty shops is proceeding steadily,
and when viewed on a half-yearly basis losses declined from ¥43mn in H1 to ¥13mn in H2, with December
being profitable on a standalone monthly basis, and profitability for full-year
FY3/16 now within sight.Growth expected in FY3/16 also, with expansion in salad
demand due to increased health consciousness (3) Results Outlook for FY3/16
Consolidated results for
FY3/16 anticipate sales up 4.8% y-o-y to ¥63,200mn, operating profit up 1.6% y-o-y to ¥3,050mn, recurring profit up 8.0% y-o-y to ¥3,000mn and net profit up 7.8% y-o-y to ¥1,770mn, with recurring profit setting a new record high for the
first time in six periods.In terms of the market
environment, the Company is expected to continue to experience tailwinds, with
increased demand for salads expected due to heightened health consciousness as
well as growing HMR demand associated with lifestyle changes. The outlook for sale by
business anticipates a 4.2% y-o-y rise in seasonings and processed foods. The
breakdown includes expectations that salads and delicatessen items will rise
6.0% y-o-y, mayonnaise and dressings 1.9% y-o-y, and processed egg products
will rise 4.5% y-o-y. In respect of salads and delicatessen items, the Company
is striving to increase sales through continuing to strengthen product series
including the World Salad series and Japanese delicatessen dishes, as well as
expanding small-package products for big box retailers and CVS. Also, in
respect of processed egg products, in addition to gains in products for CVS,
gains in sales to the restaurant industry, including conveyor-belt sushi
chains, are expected. In respect of delicatessen and
related businesses, a further high year-on-year growth rate of 7.7% is
expected. The Company expects increases in daily products for big box retailers
due to expansion in HMR demand. In respect of other businesses, sales growth of
4.3 y-o-y is expected. Growth in sales is expected due to the opening of one
new Salad Cafe shop in April (in Tachikawa City, Tokyo). Looking at factors behind
fluctuations in recurring profit, ¥397mn
from the impact of higher sales and ¥621mn
from enhanced productivity centered mainly on the Shizuoka Fujisan Factory are
the major factors tending to boost profits. On the other hand, ¥270mn from raw material cost fluctuations and ¥524mn from increased fixed and other costs, centering mainly
around staff costs, are the main factors tending to lower profits. In respect
of raw material costs, apart from high levels in poultry egg prices that have
also continued since entering this period, we feel that one factor behind cost
increases will also be the impact of yen depreciation on edible oil. Moreover,
in respect of selling price revisions, which was a factor tending to boost
profits last period, the Company’s policy in relation to core
products is to maintain them at current levels, making it neutral from the
perspective of this period’s results. Further,
non-operating income is expected to improve ¥170mn y-o-y, however, the main factor behind this is a reduction
in losses from equity in net income of affiliates.◆New Medium-term Plan Stresses growth of overseas
business and investment in new salons in Japan Aderans reviews its
medium-term plan and goals every year and modifies them accordingly. The new
medium-term plan it announced in April 2015 lowered the profit targets that had
been proposed earlier, in light of the profits earned in FY2/15. The new plan
aims to achieve profit growth by increasing sales, which may be a challenge. It
envisions growth being led by overseas business.To achieve the goals of the
new medium-term plan, each business has been assigned an action plan. These
plans are basically revisions of previous plans, but there is an increased
emphasis on opening new salons in Japan. Thus, it is important for the company
to earn a return on this increased investment. Our appraisal of the action plan
for each business follows. Custom-made Wig Salon Business
in Japan This business is tasked with
expanding its sales by improving advertising efficiency, strengthening sales
promotions, developing and selling new goods and services, assigning
appropriate personnel to needed jobs, expediting training to improve quality,
and aggressively developing stores and salons. We are most concerned about this
last mission because the new stores and salons will have to generate enough
profit to cover their costs. The sponsorship of exhibits and a stress on more
efficient advertising and sales promotion are already contributing to sales
growth, and they will have to continue to do so. Ready-made Wig Business in
Japan Ready-made wigs are sold at
shops in department stores and major retailing outlets. The company plans to
open shops in rural branches of department stores where it does not already
have shops. It also intends to reappraise its current shops in major retailing
outlets to make them more efficient, increase their product offerings or
concentrate the shops in certain locations. The company aims to sell designer
brand wigs at its shops in department stores to attract the next generation of
wig users. We are interested to see how well designer brand wigs will sell at
department stores. The company plans to strengthen its e-retailing at major
retailing outlets, and we wonder whether wigs will sell well online.Other Businesses in Japan We feel that sales of wigs
through the beauty supply route could be increased, but they have been falling
steadily in recent years. The new medium-term plan calls for the periodic
introduction of products that are superior to competing products because they
reflect the company’s production and sales
capabilities. The plan also advocates expanding the company’s market share through promotions to other businesses and
through more events and the results are anticipated. The company’s medical-related business is small, but it has great growth
potential. To promote this business, the company plans to develop more items
for medical treatment, to open more salons in hospitals, and to publish more
pamphlets and point of purchase ads. US Business The three U.S. subsidiaries,
Bosley, Hair Club, and AHG, have been given specific goals to pursue. The one
that interests us most is for Hair Club to increase its sales of custom-made
wigs for women. The company now derives only 20% of its annual sales from
women. If it could lift this proportion to 50%, it might achieve annual sales
of \30bn. We will monitor how the company attempts to increase its sales to women,
whether through greater advertising and sales promotion or developing new
products, and the sales that result from these attempts. We think it is also
important to check the impact of converting Hair Club franchises into directly
operated stores as it involves investment for acquisitions. Business in Europe, China, and
Other Parts of Asia The new plan envisions the
opening of at least 10 new stores per year in Europe. As the European market is
segmented by country and by consumer taste, business expansion there will
probably require the gradual opening of stores, but this will complicate their
management and erode efficiency. Thus, it will be important to keep tabs on the
effectiveness of investment in new stores. Aderans plans to open more
stores at efficient department stores and commercial facilities in China and
other parts of Asia. We doubt that this is a wise approach, for two reasons.
First, most residents of these countries do not seem to be so concerned about
haircare. Second, wigs are too expensive for most of these residents to buy. In
other words, we think it is too early to develop wig business in these
countries. However, there is some demand for wigs in these countries, and we
think that the best way for the company to tap this demand would be to market
aggressively to tourists to Japan from these countries. By allowing these
tourists to experience wigs in Japan through medical tourism, the company could
build demand in these countries. Production Sites Aderans Lao plans to start
operating its new plant in July 2015. This unit is now operating a temporary
plant and training workers there, so the new plant should be able to open
smoothly. The new plant will start with the integrated manufacture of
custom-made wigs, then expand into the production of ready-made wigs. It will
be interesting to see how much this new plant lowers production costs for
Aderans.◆Company Forecasts for
FY2/16 Aiming for operating income
growth through sales expansion For FY2/16, the company
projects consolidated net sales of \81.0bn (up 5.6% y-o-y), operating income of
\3.7bn (up 28.4%), ordinary income of \3.3bn (down 45.0%), and net income of
\2.8bn (down 44.8%). The company aims to increase
its sales by about \4.3bn in FY2/16. In Japan, it targets a sales rise of
\1.7bn, and overseas, it looks for a sales rise of \3.7bn. The sum of these
geographical sales increases exceeds the increase targeted for the company
because it includes some sales that are eliminated upon consolidation. The
achievement of the targeted sales increase in Japan requires a recovery of
demand for women’s wigs, both custom-made and
ready-made. The new medium-term plan specifies a notable increase in the number
of salons selling ready-made wigs for women and more exhibitions to promote the
sale of custom-made wigs for women. For its overseas business,
Aderans has great expectations of Hair Club because it foresees potential for
greater sales of wigs for women and of hair-volumizing products. Furthermore,
the conversion of franchised stores into directly operated stores is projected
to lift overall sales. However, Hair Club is projected to remain unprofitable
in 2015 (its fiscal year corresponds with the calendar year) because of heavy
amortization costs. Aderans foresees continued growth for Bosley, based on that
company’s top share of the North American market
and on its name recognition. Furthermore, the follicular unit extraction (FUE)
method of hair transplantation using the customer’s own hair that Bosley adopted in 2014 is popular because it
requires no incision into the scalp. This popularity should support sales and
profit growth for Bosley. The company aims to raise its
consolidated operating income by \800mn y-o-y in FY2/16, primarily by
increasing its sales. As in FY2/15, the company plans to spend notably on
advertising, sales promotions, and opening new salons. If these costs were
reduced, profits would temporarily expand, but without them, the company is
likely to lose market share over the medium term. We agree with the company’s decision to forego cost cuts and to rely on sales growth to
yield profit growth. The company forecasts declines
in ordinary and net incomes because it does not foresee any currency exchange
gains in FY2/16. During FY2/15, the yen weakened against the US dollar by
\17.2, from \102.20 to \119.40. As a result, the company claimed a currency
exchange gain of \3,431mn in FY2/15. Given the current weakness of the yen
against the US dollar, the company does not project further weakening.◆Shareholder Return
Policy With growing EBITDA and other
profits, the company is likely to increase its dividend Aderans raised its dividend
payment for the end of FY2/15 by \5 y-o-y to \15 per share. The company needs
cash to invest in new stores and plants in Japan and overseas, but it is
committed to rewarding its shareholders, and its EBITDA continues to grow, so
it raised its dividend. The company’s new medium-term
plan envisions a cumulative EBITDA of \28.3bn in FY2/16– 2/18, while its
capital expenditure will amount to \10–12bn over these three years. Aderans
still carries \18bn of cumulative losses from previous years, which will reduce
its tax payments for several years. Thus, the company will be able to pay
regular dividends, and it will probably increase its dividend payments as its
profits grow. 報告內容僅供參考，不得作為任何投資引用之唯一依據，且其投資風險及決定應由投資人自行判斷並自負損益。