DaikokuDenkiCo.(JP-6430)TokyoStockExchangeFirstSectionH1FY3/15salesgrew,profitsdeclined,andbothexceededtheCompanyforecasts(I)
  2015-03-19 提供機構：FISCO 作者：FISCO 點閱次數：20   

Daikoku Denki <6430>
(hereafter, “the Company”) has two main Segments, the Information System Segment, which
manufactures and sells computer systems for pachinko (Japanese pinball) parlors
or halls, and the Control System Segment, which produces and sells display and
control units for pachinko machine manufacturers. The Company holds an
approximately 35% share of the Japanese market for hall computers, reflecting
an information management method that is the de facto standard for the
industry. The Daikoku Denki Strategic Information System (DK-SIS) gathers,
processes and analyzes the daily operational information of pachinko halls with
customer associations and gives feed-back to the managers of these halls to
improve their operations. It is the only such system in Japan and supports the
Company’s business base. The system was used by
3,712 pachinko and pachinko slot halls at the end of the first half of the
fiscal year through March 2015, i.e., at the end of H1 FY3/15. As Japan’s pachinko market has been shrinking for several years, the
Company is pursuing three main reforms to achieve growth over the medium to long
term: 1) development of next-generation hall computer, 2) shifting to a
stock-type revenue model, and 3) expansion of in-house developed pachinko slot
machines. Over the next three years, the Company plans to invest about ¥5bn to develop a hall computer that will operate on a cloud
server and be capable of advanced analysis of Big Data. It will be far superior
to any competing computer and should allow the Company to increase its share of
the Japanese market for these machines. In H1 FY3/15, sales increased
7.8% y-o-y to ¥27,892mn, but operating profit declined
12.7% y-o-y to ¥2,170mn. Both sales and operating profit
were larger than the Company had forecasted at the start of the fiscal year.
Sales exceeded the forecast mainly because sales of peripheral equipment for
hall computers were stronger than projected by the Company. Operating profit
decreased because R&D expense on the development of the next-generation
hall computer increased substantially y-o-y. For FY3/15, the Company
maintained its original forecasts of a 3.4% y-o-y drop in sales to ¥55,000mn and a 43.8% fall in operating profit to ¥3,000mn. Although the H1 business performance showed steady
growth, the Company is maintaining its original plan as it is considering
conservative prospects for the Control System Segment in H2 FY3/15 and the
postponement of some expenses from H1 to H2. In the short term, the Company
will pay close attention to its business performance which could be affected by
such factors as recently announced Partial Change of the Type Testing Process
for Balls Dispensed by Pachinko Slot Machines by Japan’s National Police Agency. However, from the medium-term point of view, the Company
understand the importance of its progress of business reforms.◆Business Description Revenue-generating Information System Segment, which has
the largest market share in the industry, is the operating base of the Company Daikoku Denki manufactures and
sells computer systems for pachinko halls as its core business. It also
manufactures and sells display and control units for pachinko machines and
pachinko slot machines, and pachinko slot machines developed in-house. As the pioneer in the
development of hall computers, which assist the management of pachinko halls,
the Company strengthened hall’s trust and pachinko fan’s satisfactions by providing the management system which put
emphasis on data management, introduction of epoch-making peripheral equipment
for its hall computers, and utilization of DK-SIS, the only membership
information service in pachinko industry; and it holds the top share of the
Japanese market for hall computers. Its hall computers are
installed in about 4,200 pachinko halls in Japan, primarily high-end halls,
giving it an approximately 35% share of the market. The Company’s two main businesses are the
Information System Segment and the Control System Segment, but the Information
System Segment provided 63.3% of its total sales and 84.4% of its total
operating profit before adjustments in H1 FY3/15 and is the main source of
stable profit.Develops tools for generating information that supports
pachinko hall operations (1) Information System Segment
The Information System Segment
offers a complete line of information equipment and services to support sales
and operational management at pachinko halls. Hall computers are the main
hardware item made by the Segment, and these are supported by peripheral
equipment, such as prize customer management systems and information display
systems. For consolidating and analyzing the data recorded by this equipment,
the Segment offers services such as a hall operational support service and its
unique DK-SIS system, the membership information service. Hall computers display the
operating condition of each machine and sales data, and are the core systems
for supporting pachinko hall operations. As mentioned above, these computers
are supported by peripheral equipment, such as prize customer management
systems and information display systems; and also serve as the foundation of
the DK-SIS system, the membership information service. The major
characteristics of this business is that peripheral equipment and support
services are often sold with hall computers as a package deal. Other than the
sales of its information system equipment, the Company is shifting to a
stock-type revenue model by reinforcing regular fee income business from
after-sales management support service and information supply service. Manufactures control units while in-house developed
pachinko slot machine achieved big hit (2) Control System Segment The Control System Segment produces LCD display units, control
units, switches and motors to makers of pachinko and pachinko slot machines.
Applying the knowledge obtained during many years of analyzing data from
pachinko machines through its DK-SIS, the Segment is serving as a developing
partner to machine manufacturers by proposing specifications based on trend
analysis of popular machines, and involved in contents business by obtaining
the rights to use popular characters, beyond the Segment’s position as a unit manufacturer.Daikoku Denki began manufacturing and selling in-house developed
machines on a full scale from FY3/14. The Magical Suite Prism Nana pachinko
slot game machine, which the Company commercialized in April 2013, has been
highly appraised by players for its unique world of original characters and the
enhanced amusement it provides.◆Company Traits Made contributions to pachinko hall’s enhanced profitability by promoting the efficiency and
increasing fan’s satisfaction (1) By offering valuable
innovations, the Company established market development type growth model Since its establishment,
Daikoku Denki has consistently planned and developed new categories of goods
and services, thereby developed the pachinko market and achieved growth. It has
not just developed machines with superior functions but emphasized the
importance of data management and the need for information disclosure. Thus, it
has been able to present ideas with added value to the various aspects of
management of pachinko halls. Launched in 1974, the Company’s first hall computer enabled the managers of pachinko halls to
introduce data management method to manage the data that they had previously
simply accumulated. Consequently, its hall computers have become the de facto
standard for hall computers. In subsequent years, the Company introduced other
kinds of information equipment with revolutionary functions. One such piece of
equipment was the Data Robo terminal, which provides information about
different models of pachinko machine to the fans of these machines. This
equipment has enhanced the profitability of pachinko halls by increasing the
efficiency of pachinko hall management and the satisfaction of pachinko machine
fans. One new business being pursued by Daikoku Denki is the in-house
developed pachinko slot machines that differ from previous pachinko slot machines
and pachinko machines, which tend to be chosen based on the appealing of
gambling. As mentioned above, in April 2013, the Company commercialized a
pachinko slot game machine that displays original animation characters created
by popular illustrators, and it pursued the commitment to quality in animations
and voice actors. This high-quality machine has won accolades from pachinko
slot machine fans who also love animation videos, and the Company has again
established a new market for amusement equipment.Strong network of hall computers is supporting the
Company’s operating base (2) The Company has
established a strong network of pachinko halls Another advantage Daikoku Denki has is the DK-SIS, hall computer
based membership information service. The DK-SIS connects the Company and
member pachinko halls through networks, and gathers, processes and analyzes the
daily operational information of pachinko halls recorded by hall computers, and
feed-back useful information to the managers of these halls to improve their
operations. The managers of halls in which Daikoku Denki’s hall computers are installed can make proper store management
by using useful information such as operational data on nationwide pachinko
machines and sales data broken down by the model of pachinko machine. As for
Daikoku Denki, this firm network with member halls is supporting its operating
base. The Company also serves as a think tank on the pachinko industry and, as
a leading company of the industry, this elevates the Company’s brand name. The DH-SIS service is currently used by 3,712
pachinko and pachinko slot halls which operate approximately 1.33mn machines,
or 28.9% of all the machines installed in Japan, and gathers the data of ¥10.1 trillion annual sales.The Company has continually provided value by balancing
profitability and investment (3) Stable revenue base
supports the Company’s investment in the future
growth Daikoku Denki’s main source of
competitiveness is its investment in future growth, including its R&D
expense. Over the past few years, the Company has maintained aggressive
investment in future growth driver fields such as pachinko slot machines and a
next-generation hall computer, and other products. The stable revenue stream or
Cash Cow provided by the high-margin Information System Segment make this
investment possible. The Company’s ability to balance large
profits from its existing businesses with heavy investment in businesses of the
future allows it to maintain sustainable value creation.◆Industry Environment Although the number of halls is declining, the average
size of a hall and the average number of machines per hall are increasing Japan’s pachinko industry has been
shrinking for years, reflecting a decline in the pachinko fan’s population, a trend toward playing games with low rental costs
for balls, increases in Japan’s consumption tax, and other
factors. According to surveys by the National Police Agency, the number of
pachinko and pachinko slot halls in Japan declined at an average annual rate of
1.5% from 2009 to 2013, when the number reached 11,893 and Daikoku Denki served
about 4,200 of these halls, or about 35%. Most of Daikoku Denki’s customers are high-end pachinko halls, so those halls are
relatively insensitive to economic cycles and have money enough to invest in
new businesses.However, the National Police Agency reports that, while the
number of pachinko machines in Japan has declined, the number of pachinko slot
machines has increased, leading to a slight rise in the combined number of pachinko
and pachinko slot machines. Since the number of pachinko and pachinko slot
halls decreased over the same period, this indicate the trend for large scale
hall operations. Upsizing of pachinko and pachinko slot halls with advantage of
scale, benefits Daikoku Denki, as the Company can seeks high investment effect
from advanced functionality and added values.According to Daikoku Denki’s estimate, the value of Japan’s combined market for pachinko and pachinko slot games, as
measured by the gross profit earned by all halls nationwide, has fallen each
year, and this value has also declined on a per-machine basis. Thus, even
though pachinko halls and pachinko slot halls are increasing in average size,
they continue to operate in a challenging business. Daikoku Denki believes that
the combined market for pachinko and pachinko slot games could recover to about
¥4trn per year in mid-term once the
pachinko industry has recovered from a temporary downturn in business following
the latest consumption tax hike, and if Japan’s economy can able to overcome deflation as the country prepares
to host the Olympic Games in Tokyo. 報告內容僅供參考，不得作為任何投資引用之唯一依據，且其投資風險及決定應由投資人自行判斷並自負損益。