TOKAICorp.(JP-9729)TokyoStockExchangeFirstSectionATailwindfromRevisionsofMedicalFeeandtheNursingCareInsuranceSystem(II)
  2015-01-14 提供機構：FISCO 作者：FISCO 點閱次數：5   

Continuing to Strengthen the Company’s Financial Position (3) Financial Status With regard to TOKAI’s financial status, at the end of 1H FY3/15, total assets were
\68,472mn, down \1,738mn from the end of FY3/14, mainly reflecting a decline of
\1,878mn in inventories. The decline in inventories was due to the procurement
of pharmaceutical products in Pharmacy Services ahead of the consumption tax
rate increase in FY3/14, as noted above. Meanwhile, total liabilities
at the end of 1H FY3/15 were \23,379mn, down \3,749mn from the end of FY3/14.
The decline primarily reflected a decrease in notes and accounts payable - trade
of \3,005mn associated with the normalization of inventory levels, and a
decline of income taxes payable by \666mn. Net assets were \45,093mn, up
\2,010mn due to an increase in retained earnings. As a result, management indicators showed that the Company has
continued to strengthen its financial position, with the equity ratio at 65.5%,
up 4.5 percentage points from the end of FY3/14, and the D/E ratio dropping to
7.2%, among others.Operating and Recurring Profits Expected to Reach New
Records for the First Time in Three Years (4) Company forecasts for
FY3/15 For FY3/15, TOKAI Corp. forecasts a 4.4% y-o-y rise in
consolidated sales to \99,328mn, a 4.9% upturn in operating profit to \7,295mn,
a 4.3% increase in recurring profit to \7,552mn, and a 29.6% jump in net profit
to \4,611mn. It therefore projects a sixth consecutive record high in sales and
record-high operating and recurring profits, for the first time in three years.
Progress on the full-year planned targets as of the end of the first half was
at 48.0% for sales and 44.5% for operating profit, roughly in line with the
average level for the past four fiscal years (sales 49.6%, operating profit
44.0%). At this stage, the Company appears to be progressing as planned. The
Company is expecting significant growth in net profit, but this reflects an
extraordinary loss that the Company recorded in FY3/14 for an impairment loss
of \1,055mn on real estate holdings (Chuo ward, Tokyo), while no large
extraordinary losses are expected in FY3/15. Forecasts by segment are as shown
below.○Healthcare Services For FY3/15, the Company
projects a 3.4% y-o-y rise in sales and an 8.6% increase in operating profit
for Healthcare Services. Of this, in Hospital Services, linen supply is
expected to continue performing strongly, and key items such as “hospitalization sets”
and “NEXSURG.” are forecast to continue at a double-digit pace y-o-y. In
profits, the segment is also expecting double-digit growth, partly due to
absence of one-time expenses of \117mn booked in FY3/14. In SILVER Services, the Company
is forecasting increases in both sales and profits as the market continues to
expand. Since competition has intensified in this field, the Company has
decided to strengthen its sales structure. It will enhance the support system
for local care-giving planners as well as implementing proposal sales to
hospitals making use of its network in the Hospital Services. The Company plans
to increase its sales force by 50 in FY3/15 and add another 50 in FY3/16, to
retain customers who are expected to be discharged from hospital. The Company
will also strengthen its in-house education and training systems. With the
revision of the nursing care insurance system, it will become more important
than ever to provide customers with information on the legal system and product
knowledge. The Company therefore intends to increase the quality of its
services in this regard to differentiate itself from competitors. In Food Supply, food
ingredient costs have already begun to show signs of stabilizing, and the
business is expected to turn profitable over the full year. Nevertheless, a
full-fledged recovery in earnings is not expected until FY3/16. Furthermore,
the cleaning equipment manufacturing business, which had posted soft results
during 1H FY3/15 is expected to fall only slightly against FY3/14 over the full
year, thanks to a pick-up in orders for new products. ○Pharmacy Services For Pharmacy Services, the
Company forecasts a 4.8% y-o-y expansion of sales in FY3/15 and a 2.6% rise in
operating profit. This business aims to open eight new pharmacies in FY3/15,
and had already opened four of these at the end of 1H FY3/15. The profit landscape is not
expected to change much in the second half of FY3/15 (from October 2014 to
March 2015), with strong performance forecast. The Company plans to continue to
strengthen its initiatives in care facility-based and at-home services, and to
increase the ratio of generic pharmaceutical products that it handles.
Furthermore, in procurement price negotiations with pharmaceutical wholesalers,
1H negotiations were completed by September, and the results appear to have
been largely in line with expectations. 1H progress on full-year operating profit targets was ahead of
plan at 54%. We think the segment seems likely to exceed the Company’s plan for operating profit since the service’s results are usually weighted toward the second half of the
year, and because there are no particular increases in costs expected for the
second half either.○Environmental Services In Environmental Services, the
Company projects a 7.0% y-o-y rise in sales and a 1.3% increase in operating
profit. In 1H results for the segment both sales and profits were lower due to
lackluster performance in the solar power business and LEASEKIN business.
During 2H however, the Company aims to achieve higher sales and profits with a
large-volume sale of solar panels scheduled and progress in developing new
customers such as medical institutions, nursing care facilities, and large-scale
commercial facilities in the LEASEKIN business with the strengthening of toilet
peripheral products (seat cleaners, toilet mats, etc.). Finally, in the
hospital cleaning business, the Company is expecting to achieve full-year
growth in excess of 20%. Furthermore, in the solar
power business, the Company plans to respond to the drop-off in sales for
mega-solar projects by focusing on sales of small panels for private use by
households and small business premises, and to shift its weight into the electricity
sales business. In the electricity sales business, the Company commenced
operations of a 1.2 MW total output solar power generation facility in
Hiroshima in July 2013, and this has been contributing to profits since the
first fiscal year of its operation. The Company also plans to build two solar
power generation facilities in Kyushu, although these lie outside of the scope
of consolidation. Both have confirmed agreements with Kyushu Electric Power
Co., Inc. (9508) for the purchase of their electric power, and there are no
obstructions to their commercialization. One is scheduled to begin operation in
July 2015 by Tagawa City, Fukuoka Prefecture, with an output of 8 MW. The
second is a 12 MW facility, scheduled to commence operation in 2016 by Kunisaki
City, Oita Prefecture. ○Capital expenditure
plans In FY3/15, the Company plans to invest \4,325mn in plant and
equipment. Of this, \913mn will be spent to construct new facilities, primarily
a maintenance center for linen supply for hospitals and equipment that is sold
or rented for the care of the aged. The replacement of cleaning equipment at
existing cleaning plants will require \821mn, and the Company will purchase
\636mn of goods for rental that can be fully depreciated in the year they are
bought. In FY3/16, the Company will invest in the Kyoto plants mentioned above.
Thus, it foresees a steady rise in its depreciation expense in FY3/16 – FY3/17.◆Growth Strategy Expand business with the three pillars of Healthcare
Services, Pharmacy Services and Environmental Services Over the long term, the
Company intends to expand its three main businesses, Healthcare, Pharmacy and
Environmental services, by executing its management plans to contribute to
Japan’s society, which will age more in coming
decades, in the fields of healthcare and the environment. Management’s two objectives are to make TOKAI Corp. Japan’s leading renter of equipment for the care of the elderly and to
achieve consolidated sales of ¥110bn and a consolidated
recurring profit of ¥8.5bn. In SILVER Services, the
Company’s mainstay business, the main customer
base is the senior segment of people aged 75 and older. This segment of the
population is set to increase over the coming years, and by 2055 is projected
to reach around 1.6 times the level of 2011. In this environment, the number of
hospital beds has been declining year by year, and looking ahead, demand is
expected to increase for dedicated housing for seniors such as nursing care
facilities and elderly housing with supportive services, as well as for at-home
medical care and nursing care services. In particular, after the revision of
medical fees in FY3/15 and the revision of the nursing care insurance system in
FY3/16, the shortening of hospital stays and more stringent conditions on
admission to nursing care facilities is expected to increase the number of
users of at-home services. According to material from the Japanese Ministry of Health,
Labour, and Welfare, the estimated number of seniors requiring medical and
nursing care who use facilities and at-home services is projected to increase
from 4.27mn in 2011 to 6.41mn in 2025. To smooth the flow from hospitals and
facilities to at-home services, the Ministry proposes the establishment of a
comprehensive community care system. However, with at-home services there are
social problems that have developed such as seniors living alone and elderly
people having to undertake nursing care themselves. Establishment of at-home
living support services is therefore an urgent task at present.As the market trend progresses from “hospital admission” to “at-home” and to seamlessly integrate “medical care” and “nursing care,” we believe TOKAI Corp. will
utilize its strengths from business operations spanning the three fields of
Hospital Services, SILVER Services, and Dispensing Pharmacy Services to
increase the scope of its business opportunities going forward.TOKAI Corp. is involved in various aspects of medical and
nursing care services, and it achieves significant synergies through links
between its respective businesses. As Japanese society continues to age, we
believe TOKAI Corp.’s business results will
continue to show stable earnings expansion going forward.◆Shareholder Return Policy Targeting an overall return ratio of around 15%, there is
potential for a dividend increase or share buyback TOKAI Corp. aims to allocate 15% of its net profit to total
shareholder returns, including dividends and share buy-backs. It currently
plans to pay a dividend per share of \32 for FY3/15, but if it achieves its net
profit forecast for the year, this dividend will yield a dividend payout ratio
of 12.4%. Thus, it could increase its dividend for the year or buy back some of
shares outstanding.◆Peer Comparison One of the Company’s strengths is that it has three businesses, this could see its
stock price being reevaluated Finally, we compare the stock indicators against those of other
companies in the same industry. Actual price book-value ratio (PBR) is average,
while the dividend yield is relatively low. However, the forecast PER for
FY3/15 is about the same as two other dispensing pharmacy companies, and
cheaper than other operating companies. As mentioned above, the Company having
three businesses will be a strength going forward, and is expected to increase
its earnings growth potential, with the possibility that stock prices will also
reflect this point. 報告內容僅供參考，不得作為任何投資引用之唯一依據，且其投資風險及決定應由投資人自行判斷並自負損益。